



Network Working Group                                      K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                          14 August 2026
Expires: 15 February 2027


                 Per-User Service Connectivity Catalog
             draft-mcguinness-svc-connectivity-disco-latest

Abstract

   This specification defines a per-user service connectivity catalog: a
   standardized, authorization-aware answer to the question "which
   services can this user and client connect to right now, and how?"
   Existing discovery describes individual services but does not reflect
   the per-user, per-client authorization decisions that determine what
   is actually reachable.

   A client, such as an autonomous agent, a command-line tool, an SDK,
   or an application launcher, makes a single authenticated request to
   the Service Catalog Endpoint, discovered from the user's identity
   provider metadata after sign-in, and receives the reachable services
   that match its request.  Each service carries descriptive metadata
   and one or more connection methods.  A connection method says how to
   connect.  It describes how a credential is acquired and presented
   (for example, by OAuth 2.0 token exchange or the authorization code
   grant, an API key, or mutual TLS), or how a browser single sign-on is
   launched.  OAuth 2.0 is not assumed.

   A service may be an HTTP API, a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server,
   or an Agent2Agent (A2A) agent, and a connection may obtain a
   credential or launch a browser single sign-on.  The catalog can
   therefore serve as a machine-readable, connection-aware superset of
   an enterprise single sign-on application catalog.  A client can plan
   intent-scoped access before requesting any token.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 15 February 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Minimal Core
     1.2.  Consumers and Use Cases
     1.3.  What the Catalog Is Not
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Overview
   4.  The Service Catalog Endpoint
     4.1.  Discovering the Catalog Endpoint
       4.1.1.  Catalog Metadata
     4.2.  Catalog Request
       4.2.1.  Filtering
       4.2.2.  Pagination
     4.3.  Catalog Response
       4.3.1.  Authority for Inclusion
       4.3.2.  Service Availability and Status
       4.3.3.  Error Response
   5.  Catalog Data Model
     5.1.  Catalog Object
     5.2.  Service Object
     5.3.  Service Types
       5.3.1.  http
       5.3.2.  mcp
       5.3.3.  a2a
     5.4.  Service Categories
     5.5.  Link Object
     5.6.  Connection Object
     5.7.  Connection Profiles
       5.7.1.  OAuth Connection Profile
       5.7.2.  Pre-Authorized Credential Profile
       5.7.3.  Proxy-Injected Credential Profile
       5.7.4.  Single Sign-On Profile
       5.7.5.  Portal Profile
       5.7.6.  Public Service Profile
     5.8.  Examples
       5.8.1.  A Minimal Catalog
       5.8.2.  A Catalog Response
       5.8.3.  Multiple Instances and Accounts
   6.  Connecting to a Service
   7.  Intent-Based Use and Resource Discovery
   8.  Relationship to Other Work
   9.  Security Considerations
     9.1.  Authentication and Transport
     9.2.  Information Disclosure
     9.3.  No Secrets in the Catalog
     9.4.  Token Audience Binding and Passthrough
     9.5.  Trust in the Catalog Provider
     9.6.  Trust Requirements for Autonomous Clients
     9.7.  Confused Deputy and Client Registration
     9.8.  Trust Frameworks
     9.9.  Authorization Server Mix-Up
     9.10. Launch-Style Single Sign-On
   10. Privacy Considerations
   11. IANA Considerations
     11.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata
     11.2.  Media Type
     11.3.  Well-Known URI
     11.4.  Service Catalog Service Type Registry
     11.5.  Service Catalog Service Category Registry
     11.6.  Service Catalog Connection Profile Registry
     11.7.  OAuth Service Catalog Connection Type Registry
     11.8.  SSO Service Catalog Connection Type Registry
     11.9.  Link Relation Types
   12. References
     12.1.  Normative References
     12.2.  Informative References
   Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   A client acting on behalf of a user, often an autonomous agent, needs
   a basic answer before it can do useful work: _which services can this
   user and client connect to right now, and how is each connection
   established?_ Today there is no standardized, authorization-aware
   answer.  Service inventories live in static configuration,
   proprietary catalogs, or human documentation, and connection details
   are discovered reactively, one service at a time after an
   authorization failure.  Static configuration in particular cannot
   reflect the per-user and per-client authorization decisions that
   determine what is actually reachable at a given moment.

   Existing discovery mechanisms describe services.  They do not say
   which services a particular user and client may reach, nor how to
   connect.  OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728] describes a
   _single_ resource the client already knows about, typically after an
   HTTP 401 challenge.  OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata
   [RFC8414] describes a _single_ authorization server.  The Model
   Context Protocol authorization specification [MCP-AUTHORIZATION], MCP
   Server Cards [MCP-SERVER-CARD], A2A Agent Cards [A2A], and APIs.json
   [APISJSON] describe individual services or agents for human and
   tooling consumption.  None answers, for a given user and client,
   _what is reachable and how do I connect_. The closest relative is
   OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange Target Service Discovery
   [TOKEN-EXCHANGE-DISCOVERY], which performs authorization-aware
   discovery for one mechanism (token exchange).  This document
   generalizes that idea across connection mechanisms, and a client that
   only needs token exchange can use the catalog as a superset of it.

   This specification defines the per-user *service connectivity
   catalog* and the discovery protocol that produces it.  A client makes
   a single authenticated request to the *Service Catalog Endpoint*,
   scoped to the capability or service it needs, and receives the
   matching reachable services for that user.  Each comes with the
   descriptive metadata to understand it and one or more *connection
   methods* to connect to it.  The document returned is the _catalog_.
   The server that produces it is the *Catalog Provider*, which MAY
   aggregate services across multiple resources, authorization servers,
   authentication schemes, and administrative domains.

   This role is not greenfield.  An enterprise identity provider already
   maintains a per-user catalog of the services a user can reach.  It is
   the single sign-on application catalog behind the user's app launcher
   or dashboard, built from the same authorization decisions used here.
   Today that catalog is human-facing.  It tells an agent neither how to
   connect nor whether a connection can be made without interaction.
   This document makes that existing per-user catalog machine-readable
   and connection-aware.  An identity provider is therefore a natural
   Catalog Provider, and can expose what it already knows rather than
   build a new inventory.  For an OAuth audience, the result is the
   reachability analogue of Authorization Server Metadata [RFC8414].
   Where RFC 8414 describes one authorization server per issuer, the
   catalog describes the services reachable per user and client.

   The central abstraction is the separation of three concerns that
   existing mechanisms tend to collapse:

   *  *Discovery*: which services are reachable for this user and
      client.

   *  *Acquisition*: how a credential is obtained, or how access is
      otherwise gained (the connection profile, and any profile-specific
      type: OAuth 2.0 token exchange, authorization code, client
      credentials, the Identity Assertion Authorization Grant
      [I-D.oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant], a pre-provisioned
      credential, credential injection by a trusted intermediary,
      browser single sign-on, or none).

   *  *Presentation*: how the credential is presented when calling the
      service, expressed as an OpenAPI [OPENAPI] security scheme (a
      bearer token, API key, or mutual TLS).

   Discovery is the catalog's own role.  Acquisition and presentation
   are the two layers carried by each connection method (Section 5.6).
   Separating them lets one model describe OAuth, API keys, mutual TLS,
   pre-provisioned credentials, and future agent credential models
   without inventing a new object per mechanism.  OAuth 2.0 is not
   assumed.

   This yields the document's guiding principle: *the core catalog is
   small, and everything mechanism-specific is a separately evolvable
   profile.* The core is the per-user enumeration of services and, for
   each, its connection methods and per-connection status.  How a
   credential is acquired and presented is defined by a connection
   profile.  This document specifies the core together with an initial
   set of profiles.  Profiles, service types, categories, and link
   relations are each extension points behind an IANA registry.  They
   evolve independently of the core.  A Catalog Provider and client
   interoperate on the core and on the profiles they share.  The
   mandatory surface an implementer must adopt stays small even as the
   breadth below grows.

1.1.  Minimal Core

   The mandatory core is small.  A Catalog Provider and client
   interoperate using only the following, and every other mechanism is
   composition of a connection profile or a referenced descriptor:

   *  an authenticated Service Catalog Endpoint that returns a catalog
      for the authenticated user (Section 4.2)

   *  a catalog with a services array (Section 5.1)

   *  per service: an id, a human-readable display_name, an optional
      machine-readable name, an optional type (default http), an
      optional endpoint, optional links, and a non-empty connections
      array (Section 5.2)

   *  per connection: a profile, a per-connection availability status,
      and the members that profile defines (Section 5.6)

   A connection profile (such as oauth) supplies how a credential is
   acquired and presented.  A referenced descriptor (an OpenAPI
   document, MCP Server Card, or A2A Agent Card) supplies the service's
   capabilities.  The catalog composes these.  It does not restate them.

   Beyond the core, the catalog supports capability-based discovery, so
   a client can find a service by well-known category rather than by
   name (Section 5.4).  It treats mcp and a2a services as first class by
   referencing their Server Card or Agent Card, so a client can learn
   capabilities without connecting (Section 5.3).  And it supports
   intent-scoped planning before any token is requested (Section 7).

1.2.  Consumers and Use Cases

   The motivating consumer is an autonomous agent.  An agent cannot
   realistically, at runtime, scan a user's OpenAPI documents, infer
   which SaaS systems the user has, determine which accounts exist, and
   derive each service's connection mechanism.  Service connectivity
   discovery answers that in one scoped request.  It returns which
   services are relevant and connectable for the user, and which
   connection methods apply.

   The mechanism is not agent-specific.  The same per-user connectivity
   discovery serves command-line tools, SDKs, enterprise application
   launchers, workflow and orchestration tools, and delegated
   assistants.  An agent is one consuming class, not the reason the
   protocol exists.

   The value proposition is precise.  Without a human in the loop, a
   client can:

   *  reconnect to services the user has already linked (status of
      connected), avoiding a per-service authorization failure and retry
      on each one,

   *  plan across the set of reachable services for a user's goal, and

   *  request only the intent-scoped access a task needs (Section 7).

   These are the autonomous capabilities.  Automated connection to a
   service the user has no prior relationship with is different.  It
   requires a trust anchor.  That anchor is a prior relationship the
   client can corroborate, a local policy, or user confirmation
   (Section 9.6).  The catalog makes discovery and planning fully
   autonomous.  It makes connection autonomous only within an
   established trust boundary, and makes that boundary explicit.

1.3.  What the Catalog Is Not

   This specification does not replace OpenAPI, MCP, A2A, Agentic
   Resource Discovery [ARD], or the OAuth metadata documents ([RFC8414],
   [RFC9728]).  It answers one question those mechanisms leave open,
   before they become useful: for this authenticated user and this
   client, which services are reachable, and which connection profile
   applies?  It is glue, not a new center of gravity.

   The catalog is therefore deliberately narrow.  It is *not*:

   *  authoritative API or capability metadata: that lives in the
      service's OpenAPI document, MCP Server Card, or A2A Agent Card,
      which the catalog references rather than duplicates (Section 8);

   *  a token issuance or grant protocol: it describes how to use
      existing mechanisms and issues no credential itself (Section 6);

   *  proof of current authorization: a listed service, or a
      connection's connected status, does not guarantee a subsequent
      call will succeed (Section 4.3.2);

   *  a substitute for OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource Metadata or
      Authorization Server Metadata: those remain the authoritative
      source for endpoints and policy, and a client re-anchors to them
      before acting when using the oauth profile (Section 5.7.1).

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses the following terms:

   Catalog Provider:  The server that hosts the Service Catalog Endpoint
      and returns the catalog for the authenticated user.  A Catalog
      Provider MAY describe services served by many resource servers,
      protected by many authorization servers, and using many
      authentication schemes.  It is a role distinct from, and not
      necessarily co-located with, any service it describes.

   Client:  An application, such as an autonomous agent, that requests
      the catalog and subsequently connects to services on behalf of a
      user.

   Service:  Something a client can call on behalf of the user, such as
      an HTTP API or an MCP server.  A service has a service type (see
      Section 5.3).

   Connection Method:  One way a client can gain access to a service.
      Most connection methods separate two layers: acquisition (how a
      credential is obtained, given by the profile and, where needed, a
      profile-specific type; see Section 5.7) and presentation (how the
      credential is presented to the service; see Section 5.6).  A
      launch-style method instead opens a single sign-on start URL in a
      user agent, where the identity provider federates a session and
      the client holds no credential (Section 5.7.4).  OAuth 2.0 token
      issuance is one acquisition profile.  Others use a pre-provisioned
      credential, delegate credential handling to a trusted
      intermediary, perform browser single sign-on, or use none.

   All members and string values defined by this document are case
   sensitive unless otherwise stated.  All URIs are absolute URIs
   [RFC3986] unless otherwise stated.

   In this document, the _catalog_ (the returned document) and the
   _Service Catalog Endpoint_ are the concrete artifacts. _Service
   connectivity discovery_ is the protocol this document defines.  A
   client that encounters an unknown service type MAY retain and display
   the service object, but cannot assume service-type-specific behavior
   for it.  A client that encounters an unknown connection profile MUST
   NOT attempt to execute that connection method unless it implements
   the specification that defines the profile.

3.  Overview

   This section summarizes how a client uses the catalog end to end.
   The sections that follow specify each step.

   1.  Discover the catalog endpoint (Section 4.1).

   2.  Authenticate to the catalog and retrieve it (Section 4.2).

   3.  Filter and select a service (Section 4.2.1, Section 5.2).

   4.  Select a connection method (Section 5.6).

   5.  Establish trust in the selected connection as its profile
       requires (for the oauth profile, this means re-anchoring trust to
       the resource's metadata) (Section 5.7).

   6.  Connect (Section 6).  For a credential-based connection, obtain
       the credential and call the service presenting it.  For a launch-
       style connection (sso or portal), open the connection's
       launch_uri in a user agent.

4.  The Service Catalog Endpoint

   The Service Catalog Endpoint is an HTTP resource that returns the
   catalog of services available to the authenticated user.  The client
   MUST use TLS as specified in Section 1.6 of [RFC6749].

4.1.  Discovering the Catalog Endpoint

   The Service Catalog Endpoint is anchored to the user's identity
   provider: the OAuth 2.0 authorization server (or OpenID Connect
   Provider) that the user signs in to.  After the user has
   authenticated, a client discovers and calls the endpoint as follows:

   1.  Determine the issuer.  When the client has completed an OpenID
       Connect sign-in, the issuer is the iss value of the ID token.
       When the client starts from only a user identifier (for example,
       an acct: URI) and has not yet signed in, it MAY use WebFinger
       [RFC7033] to resolve the issuer, using the relation type
       http://openid.net/specs/connect/1.0/issuer, and then sign in.
       WebFinger is used only to resolve the issuer.  It MUST NOT be
       used to convey the catalog endpoint or its contents (see
       Section 10).

   2.  Read the discovery metadata.  The client fetches the issuer's
       authorization server metadata [RFC8414] (an OpenID Connect
       deployment uses the OpenID Provider configuration, which reuses
       the same metadata registry) and reads the
       service_catalog_endpoint value (Section 11.1), having verified
       that the metadata issuer matches the expected issuer.  The
       metadata value is a JSON string containing an absolute HTTPS URL
       with no fragment component.

       *  The metadata value is the primary, RECOMMENDED mechanism.  The
          client SHOULD prefer it when present.

       *  If the metadata omits service_catalog_endpoint, a provider co-
          located with the issuer MAY publish a catalog metadata
          document at the well-known URI /.well-known/service-catalog
          using the issuer's scheme, host, and port [RFC8615] (see
          Section 4.1.1 and Section 11.3).  That document is host-level
          metadata, not the per-user catalog, and MAY be cached.  Its
          service_catalog_endpoint member names the Service Catalog
          Endpoint, which the client then calls as in step 3.  This
          fallback is an optional deployment convenience, not a
          requirement.  If the issuer identifier contains a path
          component, clients SHOULD use issuer metadata or explicit
          configuration rather than infer a path-relative well-known
          URL.

       *  A client MUST NOT treat a catalog, or a catalog metadata
          document, at an origin different from the issuer as
          authoritative for the issuer's users on the basis of URL
          structure alone.  Cross-origin authority requires the metadata
          value or explicit configuration.

   3.  Retrieve the catalog.  The client sends an authenticated request
       to the endpoint with the user's access token (Section 4.2).  The
       catalog is scoped to the user identified by the access token, not
       by the endpoint URL.

   A client MAY instead be configured directly with the absolute URL of
   a Service Catalog Endpoint, in which case steps 1 and 2 are not used.
   The Catalog Provider that hosts the endpoint MAY be co-located with
   the authorization server or operated separately.  When operated
   separately, the access token presented to the endpoint MUST be one
   the Catalog Provider accepts (for example, issued with the Catalog
   Provider as an audience).

4.1.1.  Catalog Metadata

   A catalog metadata document is a JSON [RFC8259] object that describes
   a Catalog Provider at a host, separately from the per-user catalog it
   serves.  It is host-level, contains no per-user data, and MAY be
   cached and served publicly.  A provider publishes it at the well-
   known URI /.well-known/service-catalog (Section 11.3), served with
   the media type application/json.  It has the following member:

   service_catalog_endpoint:  REQUIRED.  A JSON string containing the
      absolute HTTPS URL, with no fragment component, of the per-user
      Service Catalog Endpoint (Section 4.2).  This is the same value an
      authorization server MAY advertise in its metadata (Section 11.1).
      When both are present, they MUST be consistent.  Because this
      document and the authorization server metadata are public, this
      URL MUST NOT encode per-user information.  The catalog is scoped
      by the access token, not by the URL (Section 4.2).

   A catalog metadata document MAY include additional members describing
   the catalog service.  Clients MUST ignore members they do not
   understand.  The document is metadata only.  The per-user catalog is
   obtained by an authenticated request to the service_catalog_endpoint
   it names, not from the well-known URI itself.

4.2.  Catalog Request

   The client retrieves the catalog by sending an HTTP GET request to
   the Service Catalog Endpoint.  A client SHOULD send an Accept header
   field that includes application/service-catalog+json.  A request with
   no Accept header field, or one whose Accept matches the catalog media
   type (including via */* or application/*+json), is acceptable for
   content negotiation.  Only when the request's Accept header field is
   present and matches none of these MAY the Catalog Provider reject the
   request with HTTP 406 (Not Acceptable).

   The client MUST authenticate the request.  The Catalog Provider
   determines the user on whose behalf the catalog is produced from the
   request credentials.  The following requirements apply:

   *  As a mandatory-to-implement baseline that any client can rely on,
      a Catalog Provider MUST accept an OAuth 2.0 access token presented
      with the Authorization request header field and the Bearer scheme
      [RFC6750], where the token's audience identifies the Catalog
      Provider.

   *  A Catalog Provider MAY additionally accept other authentication
      methods.

   *  A client SHOULD use the bearer baseline unless it has out-of-band
      knowledge of another supported method.

   *  If the request is not authenticated and authentication is
      required, the Catalog Provider MUST return an HTTP 401
      (Unauthorized) response.

   A client SHOULD scope its request to the capability or service it
   needs, using the filtering query parameters in Section 4.2.1, rather
   than retrieve the user's entire catalog.  A scoped request, for
   example by category or by a search term, is the primary and expected
   use.  A Catalog Provider MAY require a request to be scoped, and MAY
   restrict unscoped, full-catalog enumeration to clients specifically
   authorized for it (Section 9.2).  A client MAY page through a large
   result with the pagination query parameters in Section 4.2.2.  A
   Catalog Provider MUST ignore any query parameter it does not support
   or understand.  A provider that does support a parameter applies it
   as specified, including rejecting an invalid limit or cursor
   (Section 4.2.2).  All query parameter names and values are case
   sensitive.

   The following is an example request for the user's email services:

   GET /service-catalog?category=email HTTP/1.1
   Host: catalog.example.com
   Authorization: Bearer SlAV32hkKG...ACCESSTOKEN...
   Accept: application/service-catalog+json

4.2.1.  Filtering

   A client MAY include the following OPTIONAL query parameters to
   filter the services returned.  When several different filter
   parameters are present, a service is returned only if it matches all
   of them (logical AND).  When a single filter parameter is repeated, a
   service is returned if it matches any of the repeated values (logical
   OR), except for tag as noted below.  Filtering is applied before
   pagination (Section 4.2.2).

   category:  A well-known service category value (see Section 5.4),
      such as email or calendar.  Only services in the given category
      are returned.  MAY be repeated (OR).

   type:  A service type value (see Section 5.3), such as http or mcp.
      Only services of the given type are returned.  MAY be repeated
      (OR).

   status:  A connection status value (see Section 5.6): connected,
      available, consent_required, or unavailable.  Only services that
      have at least one connection method with the given status are
      returned.  MAY be repeated (OR).  For example,
      status=connected&status=available returns services the client can
      use without user interaction.

   profile:  A connection profile value (see Section 5.7), such as oauth
      or proxy_injected.  Only services that have at least one
      connection method with the given profile are returned.  MAY be
      repeated (OR).  This lets a client limit results to connection
      profiles it implements.

   tag:  A free-form tag value (see the tags member in Section 5.2).
      Only services that carry the given tag are returned.  MAY be
      repeated.  When repeated, a service is returned only if it carries
      all of the given tags (AND).

   id:  A service identifier (see the id member in Section 5.2).  Only
      the service with the given identifier is returned.  MAY be
      repeated (OR).  This supports refreshing one or more already-known
      services.

   q:  A free-text search string.  The Catalog Provider MAY use this
      value to match services by display_name, description, or other
      provider-defined criteria.

   Filtering selects whole service objects.  The connections array of a
   returned service is not pruned to the connections that matched.  A
   status or profile filter is evaluated against each connection's
   effective status or profile; the effective status is the default
   available when status is omitted (see Section 5.6).

   Filter support requirements:

   *  A Catalog Provider SHOULD support the category, type, profile, and
      id filters.  Support for the other filters is OPTIONAL.

   *  A Catalog Provider that paginates (Section 4.2.2) MUST support the
      category, type, profile, and id filters, so that a client can
      limit a large result set at the server rather than retrieving and
      locally filtering every page.

   *  Because an unsupported optional filter is ignored rather than
      rejected, a client MUST NOT assume such a filter was applied, and
      SHOULD apply its own filtering to the result as needed.

4.2.2.  Pagination

   A catalog may be large.  A Catalog Provider MAY return services
   across multiple pages, and a client pages through them using the
   following OPTIONAL query parameters:

   limit:  A positive integer indicating the maximum number of services
      the client wishes to receive in a single response.  The Catalog
      Provider MAY return fewer and MAY impose its own maximum page
      size.  A limit greater than that maximum is treated as the
      maximum.  A Catalog Provider that supports the limit parameter
      MUST reject a limit that is zero, negative, or not an integer with
      an HTTP 400 (Bad Request) (Section 4.3.3).

   cursor:  An opaque pagination cursor obtained from the next_cursor
      member (see Section 5.1) of a previous response.  The client MUST
      treat the cursor as opaque and MUST NOT modify it.  A client that
      sends a cursor SHOULD repeat the same filter parameters it used to
      obtain that cursor.  A Catalog Provider MAY reject a request that
      combines a cursor with inconsistent filters.

   When more services match than are returned in a response, the Catalog
   Provider includes a next_cursor member in the catalog object
   (Section 5.1).  Its absence indicates no further services are
   available.  A Catalog Provider MAY also indicate the next page with a
   Link header field [RFC8288] using the relation type next.  When both
   are present they MUST identify the same next page, and next_cursor is
   the normative signal (a client MAY ignore the Link header).

   The following rules apply across a pagination sequence:

   *  The Catalog Provider MUST order services consistently across the
      pages of a single sequence, so that, absent concurrent changes,
      each matching service appears on exactly one page.

   *  A cursor MAY expire.  A request with an expired or otherwise
      invalid cursor MUST be rejected with an HTTP 400 (Bad Request)
      (Section 4.3.3).  The client recovers by restarting from the first
      page.

   *  A paginated catalog is a best-effort snapshot, not a transaction.
      A client MUST NOT assume consistency across pages: a service or
      connection returned on an earlier page MAY have changed, or had
      its authorization revoked, by the time a later page is fetched.

   *  A Catalog Provider MAY paginate even when the client did not
      supply a limit.

   The following example requests the next page using a cursor from a
   previous response:

   GET /service-catalog?cursor=b2Zmc2V0OjUw HTTP/1.1
   Host: catalog.example.com
   Authorization: Bearer SlAV32hkKG...ACCESSTOKEN...
   Accept: application/service-catalog+json

4.3.  Catalog Response

   If the request is valid and authenticated, the Catalog Provider
   returns an HTTP 200 (OK) response whose body is a JSON [RFC8259]
   object, the *catalog object* (Section 5.1).  The Content-Type of the
   response MUST be application/service-catalog+json (Section 11.2).
   The media type suffix +json allows generic JSON tooling to process
   it.  A JSON Schema for the catalog object MAY be published with this
   specification, and the catalog object MAY carry a $schema member
   referencing it, so that clients can validate responses and generate
   types.  A complete example appears in Section 5.8.

   When constructing the catalog, the Catalog Provider:

   *  MUST evaluate the authenticated user's permissions and the calling
      client's permissions.  The specific authorization policy
      evaluation is implementation specific.

   *  MUST include only services and connection methods that the user
      and client are permitted to use.

   *  MUST omit any member that would otherwise contain an empty string,
      an empty array, or a null value.  The REQUIRED services member is
      the sole exception: it is always present, and is an empty array
      when no services are available.

   The Catalog Provider MAY include HTTP caching headers as specified in
   [RFC9111].  Because the catalog is user specific, any cache
   directives MUST mark the response as private (for example, Cache-
   Control: private).  To let a client refresh a large per-user catalog
   cheaply, the Catalog Provider SHOULD support conditional requests by
   returning an ETag (and/or Last-Modified) and honoring If-None-Match
   (and/or If-Modified-Since) [RFC9110], responding 304 (Not Modified)
   when the catalog is unchanged.

   The catalog is a point-in-time snapshot of a per-user state that
   changes as access is granted, revoked, or provisioned.  A client MUST
   NOT assume a previously retrieved catalog is still current.  It
   detects change by re-fetching, using conditional requests and the
   updated time, and MAY use a Cache-Control max-age as a refresh hint.
   This document defines no push or subscription mechanism.  A
   deployment that needs near-real-time change delivery provides it out
   of band.

4.3.1.  Authority for Inclusion

   Authorization applies at two distinct levels, and the catalog speaks
   only to the first:

   *  Discoverability authorization: whether the Catalog Provider may
      show this service and connection method to this user and client.
      Inclusion in the catalog is the provider's assertion that it may.
      The basis is provider-defined and may combine, for example,
      authorization server policy, enterprise administrator policy, the
      user's account state, and the service provider's registration
      state.  This document does not mandate a particular basis.

   *  Runtime authorization: whether a given call will actually succeed.
      This decision belongs to the service and its authorization server,
      is made at call time, and is not delegated to the Catalog
      Provider.

   The following constraints follow:

   *  A Catalog Provider MUST include only services and connection
      methods the user and client are permitted to discover and use, to
      the best of the provider's knowledge.  It MUST NOT pad the catalog
      with services the user is not permitted to discover.  It MAY
      include a discoverable service that the user cannot currently
      call, but only by marking every connection method for that service
      as unavailable (Section 4.3.2).

   *  Discoverability authorization is a point-in-time assertion, not a
      guarantee of runtime authorization (Section 4.3.2).  The
      authoritative decision remains with the service and its
      authorization server.

   *  A client MUST NOT treat inclusion (discoverability authorization)
      as runtime authorization.  It still applies the selected profile's
      trust requirements and obtains a credential through the normal
      flow (Section 5.7).

4.3.2.  Service Availability and Status

   "Available to the user" is split across two levels: whether a service
   _appears_ at all, and the per-connection status (Section 5.6) of how
   it can be used.

   A service appears in the catalog when the user is permitted to know
   it exists, that is, it is _discoverable_. Appearing does not by
   itself mean the user can call it now.  That is conveyed per
   connection:

   *  Discoverable: the service is listed at all.  A Catalog Provider
      MUST omit services the user is not permitted to discover.

   *  Connectable without interaction: at least one connection has
      status available or connected.

   *  Connectable after consent: a connection has status
      consent_required.

   *  Known but currently unavailable: every connection has status
      unavailable, for example, the service is licensed but not
      provisioned for this user, or is temporarily blocked by policy.
      The service is still shown so the user or agent knows it exists
      and how it might be enabled (for example, via a sign-up link to
      create an account, or a request-access link to request access the
      user does not yet have).

   In short, inclusion answers "may the user know about this service,"
   and status answers "can the user connect, and how."

4.3.3.  Error Response

   If the request fails, the Catalog Provider returns an HTTP error
   response.  The response body, when present, is a problem details
   object [RFC9457] with the media type application/problem+json.  The
   HTTP status code is set as follows:

   *  401 (Unauthorized): authentication is required and was missing or
      invalid.  The Catalog Provider MUST include a WWW-Authenticate
      header field [RFC6750] indicating how to authenticate.

   *  403 (Forbidden): the authenticated client is not authorized to use
      the catalog endpoint.

   *  400 (Bad Request): the request is malformed, or includes an
      invalid or expired cursor (see Section 4.2.2).

   *  406 (Not Acceptable): the request's Accept header field excludes
      the catalog media type.

   *  429 (Too Many Requests): the client has exceeded a rate limit (see
      Section 9.2).  The Catalog Provider SHOULD include a Retry-After
      header field.

   *  503 (Service Unavailable): the Catalog Provider is temporarily
      unable to handle the request.

   The HTTP status code is the authoritative machine-readable error
   signal, and a client MUST NOT depend on the problem-details type
   being present.  More than one condition maps to 400: a malformed
   request, and an invalid or expired cursor.  A Catalog Provider that
   wants these to be distinguishable SHOULD use a distinct, stable
   problem-details type URI for each.  A client can then branch on type
   when it is present (for example, to recover from an invalid cursor by
   restarting pagination), while still relying on the status code
   otherwise.

   The following is an example error response:

   HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
   Content-Type: application/problem+json
   WWW-Authenticate: Bearer

   {
     "type": "https://example.com/probs/invalid-token",
     "title": "The access token is missing or expired",
     "status": 401
   }

5.  Catalog Data Model

   This section defines the JSON objects returned by the endpoint: the
   catalog object and the service, link, and connection objects it
   contains, together with the service-type, category, connection-
   profile, and profile-specific connection-type vocabularies.  Worked
   examples follow in Section 5.8.

5.1.  Catalog Object

   The catalog object contains the following members:

   $schema:  OPTIONAL.  A URI referencing the JSON Schema that describes
      this catalog object, for validation and type generation.  The
      catalog format evolves additively: new members are added under the
      unknown-member rule below and new values through the IANA
      registries, so no separate version member is defined.  A future
      incompatible revision would be signaled by a new media type.

   services:  REQUIRED.  An array of *service objects* (see
      Section 5.2), each describing a service available to the user.  If
      the user has access to no services, this member is an empty array.

   display_name:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a human-readable name for
      the catalog.

   description:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a human-readable description
      of the catalog.

   updated:  OPTIONAL.  The timestamp at which the catalog content was
      last updated, as an [RFC3339] date-time string.

   next_cursor:  OPTIONAL.  An opaque string.  If present, more services
      are available than were returned.  The client obtains the next
      page by repeating the request with the cursor query parameter set
      to this value (see Section 4.2.2).  If absent, no further services
      are available.

   warnings:  OPTIONAL.  An array of warning objects reporting that the
      catalog may be incomplete or degraded, for example because the
      Catalog Provider could not enumerate one of the sources it
      aggregates.  Each warning object has a REQUIRED code (a short
      machine-readable string), an OPTIONAL message (a human-readable
      explanation), and an OPTIONAL source (an identifier of the
      affected source or administrative domain).  When a warning
      indicates incomplete enumeration, a client MUST NOT treat the
      absence of a service from the catalog as evidence that the user
      cannot reach it.

   Extensions MAY define additional members of the catalog object.
   Clients MUST ignore members they do not understand.

5.2.  Service Object

   A service object describes a single service and how to connect to it.
   It contains the following members:

   id:  REQUIRED.  A string giving a stable, provider-assigned
      identifier for the service, unique within the catalog.  Clients
      MAY use this value to correlate a service across catalog requests
      to the same Catalog Provider.

   uid:  OPTIONAL.  An absolute URI (which MAY be a URN) that globally
      and stably identifies this service object, independent of any one
      catalog.  Whereas id is unique only within this catalog, uid lets
      a client correlate this service across different Catalog
      Providers, and with the same service as discovered elsewhere (for
      example, in a public cross-organization discovery catalog such as
      [ARD], or as an entry in a public AI Catalog [AI-CATALOG]).  The
      following apply:

      *  Service objects that are instances or tenants of one logical
         service (grouped by group; see below) each carry their own uid,
         just as each has its own id.

      *  To be meaningful across catalogs, a uid SHOULD be minted under
         a namespace its issuer controls: an HTTPS URL under the
         service's own origin, or a URN under a namespace registered to
         the service provider [RFC8141].

      *  A uid is descriptive only and carries no authority.  A client
         MUST NOT treat a shared uid as evidence that two entries are
         the same service, and MUST NOT infer trust or sameness from a
         uid outside the apparent issuer's control, without applying the
         trust checks it applies to any catalog entry (Section 5.6).

      *  A uid is a stable cross-provider correlation handle and carries
         privacy implications (Section 10).

      It is distinct from endpoint (the network location the client
      calls) and from a connection's resource (the resource indicator
      [RFC8707]).

   display_name:  REQUIRED.  A string giving a human-readable name for
      the service, suitable for display to an end user (for example, in
      a service picker).  It MAY be localized and MAY change over time.

   name:  OPTIONAL.  A stable, machine-readable name for the service: a
      slug an agent, command-line tool, or configuration can refer to,
      such as example-mail.  It is distinct from the opaque, provider-
      assigned id (a correlation handle) and from the human-readable
      display_name.  Where present, it SHOULD be stable across catalog
      requests.

   logo_uri:  OPTIONAL.  A URI of an image to display for the service,
      for example in a service picker or application launcher.  An icon
      link (Section 5.5), if also present, points to the same image.

   connections:  REQUIRED.  A non-empty array of *connection objects*
      (see Section 5.6), each describing one way the client can connect
      to the service.  The Catalog Provider SHOULD order the array from
      most to least preferred.

   type:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving the service type, a value from the
      registry in Section 5.3.  If omitted, the type is http.

   description:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a human-readable description
      of the service.

   categories:  OPTIONAL.  An array of well-known service category
      values (see Section 5.4) describing what the service does,
      enabling capability-based discovery.

   tags:  OPTIONAL.  An array of free-form tag strings categorizing the
      service.

   preferred:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the Catalog Provider
      marks this as a preferred choice among comparable services the
      user could use for the same purpose (for example, the primary
      service in a category or group), to aid selection.  It is a hint,
      not a constraint.  When absent, the default is false.

   deprecated:  OPTIONAL.  A boolean.  When true, the service is
      deprecated and may be withdrawn.  A client SHOULD prefer a non-
      deprecated alternative when one is suitable, and SHOULD NOT begin
      a new relationship with a deprecated service without reason.  When
      absent, the default is false.

   links:  OPTIONAL.  An array of *link objects* (see Section 5.5)
      pointing to related resources such as documentation, sign-up, or
      the MCP Server Card, using link relation types [RFC8288].

   endpoint:  OPTIONAL.  A URI giving the network location at which the
      service is hosted and that the client calls.  For an http service
      it is the base URL of the API.  For an mcp service it is the MCP
      server endpoint.  For an a2a service it is the agent endpoint.  It
      is distinct from a connection's resource member (Section 5.6), the
      RFC 8707 resource indicator used when requesting a token, which
      need not be byte-identical to it.  A service link (Section 5.5),
      if present, points to the same location.  A service object SHOULD
      carry endpoint unless a service link supplies it.

   mcp:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object present only when type is mcp (see
      Section 5.3.2).

   a2a:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object present only when type is a2a (see
      Section 5.3.3).

   tenant:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a machine-readable identifier for
      the tenant of a multi-tenant service, when this service object
      represents one tenant.  It is descriptive (it lets a client
      correlate the service, and the tokens it will obtain, with a
      tenant context) and aligns with the tenant identifier used in
      [TOKEN-EXCHANGE-DISCOVERY] and
      [I-D.oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant].

   group:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a stable identifier shared by all
      service objects that are instances or tenants of the same logical
      service, so a client can group them (for example, in a picker).
      Service objects in the same group are otherwise independent: each
      has its own id, endpoint, connections, and per-user state.

   group_display_name:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a human-readable name
      for the group, suitable as a heading when a client presents the
      grouped instances or tenants together.  Service objects sharing a
      group SHOULD carry the same group_display_name.

   The service object intentionally carries no authentication-scheme-
   specific members.  Values such as the authorization server, scopes,
   and resource indicator are properties of a particular authentication
   scheme, so they appear on the relevant connection object
   (Section 5.6) rather than on the service.  A service that supports
   more than one authentication scheme has more than one connection
   object, each carrying the values for its scheme.

   A logical service the user can reach as more than one instance or
   tenant (for example, regional deployments, or dev and staging tenants
   of one provider) is represented as multiple service objects that
   share a group value, each independently connectable and, where
   applicable, carrying its own tenant.  This mirrors the per-tenant
   target representation of [TOKEN-EXCHANGE-DISCOVERY]: the descriptive
   tenant identity lives on the service object, while any acquisition-
   time selector (such as a token-exchange audience) lives on the
   connection.

   Extensions and service types MAY define additional members of the
   service object.  Clients MUST ignore members they do not understand.

5.3.  Service Types

   The type member of a service object identifies the kind of service,
   using a value from the "Service Catalog Service Type" registry
   (Section 11.4).  This document defines three values.

5.3.1.  http

   A conventional HTTP API.  The endpoint member is the base URL of the
   API.  A machine-readable description (for example, an OpenAPI
   document) MAY be referenced with a service-desc link (Section 5.5).
   This is the default type when type is omitted.

5.3.2.  mcp

   A Model Context Protocol server [MCP-AUTHORIZATION].  Its endpoint is
   the MCP server's URL.  A service of type mcp SHOULD reference the
   server's MCP Server Card [MCP-SERVER-CARD], either with an mcp-
   server-card link (Section 5.5) or with the server_card_uri member
   below, so that a client can learn the server's capabilities without
   connecting.

   A service of type mcp MAY include an mcp member, a JSON object with
   the following members:

   transport:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving the MCP transport the endpoint
      uses (for example, streamable-http).

   server_card_uri:  OPTIONAL.  A URI giving the location of the
      server's MCP Server Card [MCP-SERVER-CARD].

   Because MCP servers use OAuth 2.0 for authorization
   [MCP-AUTHORIZATION], an mcp service typically offers the oauth
   connection profile (for example, with type authorization_code or
   token_exchange).  Service type and connection profile are
   independent.  As for any OAuth service, the client re-anchors to the
   server's Protected Resource Metadata before acting (Section 5.7.1).
   The location and format of the MCP Server Card are defined by
   [MCP-SERVER-CARD].  This document does not define them, and a Catalog
   Provider references the card by URL.

5.3.3.  a2a

   An Agent2Agent (A2A) agent [A2A].  Its endpoint is the agent's URL.
   A service of type a2a SHOULD reference the agent's A2A Agent Card,
   either with an agent-card link (Section 5.5) or with the
   agent_card_uri member below, so that a client can learn the agent's
   skills and capabilities without connecting.

   A service of type a2a MAY include an a2a member, a JSON object with
   the following members:

   transport:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving the A2A transport the endpoint
      uses (for example, JSONRPC).

   agent_card_uri:  OPTIONAL.  A URI giving the location of the agent's
      A2A Agent Card (typically at /.well-known/agent-card.json).

   As with mcp, service type and connection profile are independent.  An
   a2a agent describes how callers authenticate to it in its Agent Card,
   which the catalog references rather than restates.

5.4.  Service Categories

   The categories member of a service object, and the category query
   parameter (Section 4.2), use well-known category values from the
   "Service Catalog Service Category" registry (Section 11.5) to
   describe what a service does.  This document seeds the registry with
   the values email, calendar, contacts, files, chat, tasks, crm, and
   ticketing.  The registry is extensible under an Expert Review policy
   (Section 11.5) so the shared vocabulary stays coherent while keeping
   the bar to add a common category low.  Private or experimental
   categories use a collision-resistant namespaced form.  An agent can
   rely on registered values to find a service by capability (for
   example, "an email service") rather than by name.

5.5.  Link Object

   A link object points to a resource related to a service.  It is
   modeled on the Web Linking framework [RFC8288] and contains the
   following members:

   rel:  REQUIRED.  A link relation type [RFC8288]: either a registered
      relation type or an extension relation type (an absolute URI).
      Relation types commonly used in a catalog include service (the
      service's primary endpoint or home), service-desc (a machine-
      readable API description such as an OpenAPI document), service-doc
      (human-readable documentation), terms-of-service, privacy-policy,
      help, status (a service status page), icon, describedby (for
      example, a Protected Resource Metadata document [RFC9728]), sign-
      up (where a user can sign up for the service), request-access
      (where the user can request access to a service they cannot
      currently use), mcp-server-card (the service's MCP Server Card
      [MCP-SERVER-CARD]), and agent-card (the service's A2A Agent Card
      [A2A]).  The relation types sign-up, request-access, mcp-server-
      card, and agent-card are registered by this document (see
      Section 11.9).

   href:  REQUIRED.  A URI giving the target of the link.

   type:  OPTIONAL.  A string hinting the media type of the link target.

   title:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a human-readable title for the
      link.

5.6.  Connection Object

   A connection object describes one connection method for a service.
   For a credential-based method it separates two layers: how the client
   _acquires_ a credential and how it _presents_ that credential when
   calling the service.  A launch-style method instead carries a
   launch_uri the user agent opens (Section 5.7.4).  A connection object
   MUST carry enough information for the client either to execute the
   connection directly or to deterministically fetch the remaining
   information it needs.  Heavy or detailed metadata (for example, the
   full authorization server metadata document) is referenced by URL
   rather than inlined.

   This document defines the core catalog protocol and several initial
   connection profiles in one specification.  The core catalog is
   independent of any credential acquisition mechanism.  A connection
   profile defines the profile-specific members, processing rules, and
   security considerations for one family of connection methods.  Future
   specifications may define additional profiles or update the profiles
   defined here.

   Every connection object has a profile:

   profile:  REQUIRED.  A string giving the connection profile, drawn
      from the "Service Catalog Connection Profile" registry
      (Section 11.6).  This document defines oauth, pre_authorized,
      proxy_injected, sso, portal, and none.  A client that encounters
      an unknown profile MUST NOT execute that connection method unless
      it implements the specification that defines the profile.

   type:  OPTIONAL.  A profile-specific string identifying the specific
      method within the selected profile, for example the credential
      acquisition method for oauth or the single sign-on protocol for
      sso.  The oauth profile requires this member and defines its
      values in the "OAuth Service Catalog Connection Type" registry
      (Section 11.7).  Profiles that define only one method can omit
      type.

   present:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object describing how the client presents
      its credential (the service-authentication layer, distinct from
      credential acquisition).  Its value is a Security Scheme Object as
      defined in OpenAPI 3.1 or later [OPENAPI], the same model used by
      OpenAPI securitySchemes and A2A Agent Cards [A2A].  Because it is
      a verbatim OpenAPI object, its member names follow OpenAPI
      conventions (for example, mutualTLS, apiKey) rather than the
      snake_case used elsewhere in this document.  A client or SDK MUST
      NOT alter their casing, and in particular MUST NOT snake_case-
      normalize them.  The following apply:

      *  Allowed types: the value MUST be of OpenAPI type http, apiKey,
         or mutualTLS, for example {"type": "http", "scheme": "bearer"},
         {"type": "apiKey", "in": "header", "name": "X-API-Key"}, or
         {"type": "mutualTLS"}. The oauth2 and openIdConnect types MUST
         NOT appear, because credential acquisition (including OAuth
         flows) is expressed by the connection profile and, where
         applicable, type.

      *  API key location: because present is a verbatim OpenAPI object,
         any apiKey location OpenAPI permits is syntactically valid
         here, but a query-located key places the credential in the
         request URI, where it is exposed in logs and history. in:
         header is RECOMMENDED.  A Catalog Provider SHOULD NOT advertise
         an apiKey with in: query for this profile, and SHOULD avoid in:
         cookie; it MAY advertise in: query only when a local policy or
         out-of-band agreement establishes it is safe for the specific
         service.  A client SHOULD reject an apiKey scheme with in:
         query by default, presenting it that way only when its own
         policy permits.

      *  When omitted: presentation is resolved by the selected profile.
         If the profile does not define a default, the client uses the
         service's referenced descriptor, such as an OpenAPI document,
         A2A Agent Card, or MCP Server Card.

      *  No restatement: the catalog SHOULD NOT inline a present value
         that merely repeats security schemes already published in the
         service's descriptor (an OpenAPI document via service-desc, an
         A2A Agent Card, or an MCP Server Card).  A client obtains those
         by reference (Section 7).

      *  Applicability: present is primarily for http services that lack
         a referenced descriptor.  For mcp services, presentation
         follows the MCP specification (a bearer token over the MCP
         transport) unless the selected connection profile says
         otherwise.  For a2a services, presentation follows the agent's
         Agent Card.  For a proxy_injected connection (Section 5.7.3),
         present describes how the client authenticates to the
         intermediary, not to the service.  For an sso or portal
         connection (Section 5.7.4, Section 5.7.5), present does not
         apply, because access is established by browser launch rather
         than by a credential the client presents.

   security_scheme:  OPTIONAL.  A string naming a security scheme
      defined in the service's referenced descriptor (a key of an
      OpenAPI securitySchemes object, or the securitySchemes of an A2A
      Agent Card) that this connection corresponds to.  This lets a
      client map the connection to a specific scheme rather than
      inferring it, and is meaningful only for the common case of a
      single applicable scheme.  When the descriptor's security
      requirements are more complex (multiple required schemes, or
      alternatives), the client consults the descriptor's security
      requirements directly.  This member does not apply to mcp
      services, whose authorization is defined by the MCP specification
      rather than by named security schemes.

   status:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving the per-user availability of this
      connection method.  It is a planning signal for whether and how a
      credential can be obtained.  It is not a security or trust
      assertion (Section 9.6).  If omitted, the client SHOULD treat the
      status as available.  Because this default is the most actionable
      value, "not computed" and "verified available" are
      indistinguishable.  A Catalog Provider SHOULD therefore set status
      explicitly, and a security-conscious client MAY treat a connection
      whose status it cannot confirm as requiring verification before
      relying on it.  One of:

      *  connected: The Catalog Provider believes an account or linkage
         exists for this user (for example, a prior authorization, an
         account link, or a stored token).  This is the provider's
         assertion that a relationship exists.  It does not mean a valid
         credential is in hand, that the service is the one the user
         intended, or that calling is safe.  The client may still need
         to obtain or refresh a token, the relationship MAY be stale
         (expired or revoked), and the assertion is only as trustworthy
         as the provider, so connected alone does not waive the resource
         confirmation and trust checks of Section 5.7.1.  A client MUST
         still handle an authentication failure at call time.

      *  available: The client can connect using this method without
         further user interaction (for example, a token exchange or
         client credentials grant).

      *  consent_required: Connecting requires user interaction (for
         example, an authorization code grant with user consent, or an
         interactive single sign-on).

      *  unavailable: The method is described for completeness but
         cannot currently be used by this user.

      These four values are the protocol-relevant distinctions: whether
      a usable connection already exists, can be established without
      interaction, requires interaction, or is unusable.  Finer
      operational states (for example, pending administrator approval,
      an expired credential, or a user-disconnected account) are
      deployment details, are not standardized, and are conveyed, if at
      all, through other members or out of band.

   account:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object identifying the account this
      connection is associated with, when the user holds (or can
      establish) more than one account at the service.  An account is a
      distinct identity or subscription the user holds at the service,
      established through prior authorization or account linking.  How
      accounts are established or linked is out of scope.  The object
      has the following members:

      *  id: REQUIRED.  An opaque, stable, provider-assigned identifier
         for the account.

      *  label: OPTIONAL.  A human-readable name for display, such as
         "Work".  It MAY be personal data (see Section 10).

      *  login_hint: OPTIONAL.  A value the client passes as the OpenID
         Connect login_hint parameter to steer an interactive
         authorization to this account.

      Two connection objects of the same profile and type that differ
      only by account represent two distinct accounts, for example, two
      connected mailboxes.  A connection with no account represents
      establishing a new account, or an account the provider does not
      distinguish.

   Profiles define additional profile-specific members, as described in
   Section 5.7.  Extensions MAY define additional members of the
   connection object.  Clients MUST ignore members they do not
   understand.

5.7.  Connection Profiles

   This section defines the initial connection profiles.  Each profile
   reuses the common connection object members from Section 5.6 and
   defines any profile-specific members, processing rules, and security
   requirements.

5.7.1.  OAuth Connection Profile

   The oauth profile describes connection methods that obtain an access
   token from an OAuth 2.0 authorization server.  An oauth connection
   object MUST include a type member whose value is drawn from the
   "OAuth Service Catalog Connection Type" registry (Section 11.7).
   This document defines token_exchange, authorization_code,
   client_credentials, and id_jag.

   The following members are defined by the oauth profile.  They are
   carried on the connection object, rather than inherited from the
   service object or other catalog entries, so each connection is
   interpreted on its own.

   authorization_server:  REQUIRED.  A URI giving the issuer identifier
      [RFC8414] of the authorization server to use for this connection.
      The client obtains the authorization server's endpoints and
      capabilities from its metadata [RFC8414].

   token_endpoint:  OPTIONAL.  A URI giving the authorization server's
      token endpoint, provided as an optimization.  Before using it, the
      client MUST verify it matches the token_endpoint in the validated
      metadata [RFC8414] of the connection's authorization_server.  The
      client MUST NOT send a credential (such as a token exchange
      subject_token) to a token_endpoint it has not verified against
      that metadata.  When absent, the client obtains the token endpoint
      from the authorization server metadata.

   resource:  OPTIONAL.  A URI giving the resource indicator [RFC8707]
      the client includes when requesting a token for this connection,
      as a canonical URI per Section 2 of [RFC8707].  This identifies
      the protected resource and corresponds to the resource described
      by a Protected Resource Metadata document [RFC9728], which MAY be
      referenced by a describedby link (Section 5.5).  An OAuth
      connection that can be executed directly SHOULD include resource.
      If resource is omitted, the client MUST derive the protected
      resource identifier from the service's authoritative metadata,
      descriptor, or challenge response before requesting a token, and
      MUST NOT treat the catalog's authorization_server alone as
      sufficient authority for the token request.

   scopes:  OPTIONAL.  An array of OAuth 2.0 scope values Section 3.3 of
      [RFC6749] available to this connection.  This is a coarse,
      planning-time hint and an upper bound: it lists scopes the user
      and client may request, not what any particular operation
      requires.  Operation-level scope requirements come from the
      service's descriptor (for example, an OpenAPI [OPENAPI] document)
      and are enforced by the authorization server.  A client SHOULD
      request the least privilege its task requires rather than the full
      set.

   authorization_details_types:  OPTIONAL.  An array of OAuth 2.0 Rich
      Authorization Requests [RFC9396] authorization_details type
      identifiers (strings) that this connection accepts for this user,
      enabling fine-grained, intent-scoped access requests independently
      of scopes.  Like scopes, this is a planning-time hint and an upper
      bound, not a per-operation requirement.  It is the per-service,
      per-user counterpart to the server-wide
      authorization_details_types_supported metadata of [RFC9396]: it
      tells the client which types are usable here, while the schema,
      documentation, and examples for each type are obtained from the
      authorization server's Authorization Details Types Metadata
      [RAR-METADATA] (discovered via this connection's
      authorization_server) rather than restated in the catalog.

   client_id:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving a static, pre-assigned OAuth
      2.0 client identifier the client uses with the
      authorization_server.  It is present with client_registration
      static (or on its own, which the client treats as static), and is
      absent with dynamic and client_id_metadata_document, which do not
      use a pre-assigned identifier.

   client_registration:  OPTIONAL.  A string naming how the client
      establishes its identity with the authorization_server.  One of:

      *  static: use the pre-assigned identifier in the client_id
         member, which MUST be present.  This supports authorization
         servers that require a pre-registered, per-service, or per-
         tenant client.

      *  dynamic: register using OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration
         [RFC7591], discovering the registration endpoint from the
         authorization server metadata.  The authorization server issues
         the client identifier.

      *  client_id_metadata_document: use an HTTPS URL the client
         controls as its client_id, per [CIMD].  The authorization
         server dereferences that URL to obtain the client's metadata,
         with no pre-registration and no registration call.  Support is
         advertised by client_id_metadata_document_supported in the
         authorization server metadata [RFC8414].  Where an
         authorization server has instead pre-registered a specific
         Client ID Metadata Document URL, the catalog uses static and
         carries that URL as the client_id.

      When client_registration is absent, the client uses the client_id
      if one is present, and otherwise an identity it determines is
      appropriate by other means (including no client identifier where
      the flow requires none).

      Additional values MAY be defined by specifications that update the
      oauth profile.  A client that encounters a client_registration
      value it does not implement MUST NOT use that connection method,
      as for an unknown profile (Section 5.6).

   The OAuth values in a connection object (authorization_server,
   resource, scopes, and authorization_details_types) are an
   optimization: a cache of values whose authoritative sources are the
   service's Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728], the authorization
   server metadata [RFC8414], and the service's descriptor.  They let a
   client act without extra round trips, but they are not a second
   source of truth.  Specifically:

   *  Before using an OAuth connection to obtain or present a token, a
      client MUST re-anchor trust to the resource it intends to call: it
      MUST confirm that the connection's authorization_server is listed
      in the Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728] of the service's
      resource (for mcp services, through the standard MCP flow; see
      Section 5.3.2).  When the connection omits resource, the client
      first derives the protected resource identifier as described
      above.  If the client cannot determine and validate the protected
      resource, it MUST NOT use the connection, unless the connection
      identifies its target solely by an authorization-server-local
      audience (the token_exchange and id_jag types), for which the
      alternative anchor in the next bullet applies.  This prevents a
      misconfigured or malicious catalog from directing the client to an
      attacker-controlled authorization server (see Section 9).

   *  When an OAuth connection has no resource and identifies its target
      solely by an authorization-server-local audience (token_exchange
      (Section 5.7.1.1) or id_jag (Section 5.7.1.4)), there is no
      Protected Resource Metadata to anchor against, and resource re-
      anchoring does not apply.  The trust anchor is instead the
      connection's authorization_server, which issues and audience-
      restricts the resulting token.  Because executing such a
      connection discloses a credential to that authorization server (a
      subject_token for token_exchange, an assertion for id_jag), the
      client MUST NOT present it unless it independently trusts that
      authorization server to receive it: for example, because the
      authorization server is the issuer of the presented token or the
      user's identity provider, or is permitted by a trust policy or
      explicit configuration (Section 9.7).  Trusting the authorization
      server is necessary but not sufficient: a trusted server may still
      not be authoritative for the catalog-supplied audience, which the
      catalog alone chose.  The client's local policy or configuration
      MUST therefore bind the specific (authorization_server, audience)
      pair to the intended target service before the client presents the
      credential; absent such a binding, the connection is not usable
      without user confirmation.  Having obtained a token, the client
      SHOULD also confirm it is bound to the intended service before
      using it (Section 5.7.1.1).

   *  Re-anchoring proves that the authorization_server is authoritative
      for the resource.  It does not prove that the resource (or
      endpoint) is the service the user intended: a compromised or
      overly broad Catalog Provider could supply a self-consistent
      resource, and could equally assert a relationship (a status of
      connected, or an account; see Section 5.6) for an attacker-
      controlled service.  A catalog-asserted relationship is therefore
      a hint, not proof.

      Accordingly, for any connection that has, or from which the client
      can derive, a resource, the client MUST independently confirm that
      resource before obtaining or presenting a credential.  Catalog-
      asserted connected alone does not satisfy this; the confirmation
      MAY instead be met by any of:

      -  a prior relationship the client can corroborate from its own
         state (for example, it already holds, or previously itself
         obtained, a credential for that exact resource);

      -  a local trust policy or explicit configuration that authorizes
         the connection;

      -  user confirmation, or the resource's origin appearing on an
         allowlist.

      This requirement applies regardless of status.  A silent
      connection (status of available) needs it more than an interactive
      one, not less: because it completes with no user involvement, a
      malicious but internally consistent entry (its resource, that
      resource's Protected Resource Metadata, and authorization_server
      all attacker-controlled) would otherwise pass re-anchoring and
      cause the client to disclose its credential and user data to the
      attacker with no human in the loop.  An audience-only connection
      (no resource; the token_exchange and id_jag types) is anchored as
      described in the preceding bullet instead.

   *  If a connection value conflicts with the authoritative metadata,
      the authoritative metadata takes precedence.

   *  When the resource's Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728]
      indicates DPoP-bound access tokens are required
      (dpop_bound_access_tokens_required), or the client otherwise
      selected a DPoP-bound token for the connection, the client MUST
      present the token using DPoP [RFC9449] rather than as a plain
      bearer token.  DPoP requirements and support are discovered from
      resource and authorization server metadata rather than restated in
      the catalog.

   *  To detect change cheaply, a client SHOULD use conditional requests
      against the catalog (see Section 4.3).  The catalog's updated time
      and entity tag indicate whether re-fetching is necessary.

   Presentation for the oauth profile is resolved in this order: (1) an
   explicit present; (2) the named security_scheme resolved against the
   service's referenced descriptor; (3) an HTTP bearer token [RFC6750];
   (4) otherwise, the security schemes published in the service's
   referenced descriptor.

   The catalog's irreducible contribution is the user-scoped enumeration
   of which services and connection methods exist, and their per-user
   status, not the OAuth endpoints themselves, which remain owned by the
   authoritative metadata.

5.7.1.1.  token_exchange

   The client obtains a token by performing an OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange
   [RFC8693] at the authorization_server.  As the subject_token the
   client presents a token it already holds whose subject is the user,
   typically the access token it used to retrieve the catalog, or
   another user token the authorization_server is configured to accept
   for exchange.  Whether this connection is truly silent (status of
   available) depends on the client possessing such an acceptable
   subject token.  If it does not, the exchange will fail and the client
   must obtain a suitable token first.  This is the catalog equivalent
   of [TOKEN-EXCHANGE-DISCOVERY].

   Type-specific members:

   audience:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving the audience value Section 2.1
      of [RFC8693] to include in the token exchange request.  The
      audience is the logical name of the target service and need not be
      a URI.  It MAY be an opaque, authorization-server-local
      identifier.  For a multi-tenant service, each tenant is a distinct
      service object (grouped by group; see Section 5.2) whose
      connection carries a distinct audience value selecting that
      tenant.  The tenant's descriptive identity is the service object's
      tenant member.  Unlike token_endpoint, the audience selector has
      no independent metadata to validate against.  It is a catalog-
      supplied value the client trusts to the extent it trusts the
      Catalog Provider, bounded by the trusted authorization_server
      (Section 5.7.1), which issues and audience-restricts the resulting
      token.  A client SHOULD confirm that the token it receives is
      bound to the intended service before using it.

   supported_token_types:  OPTIONAL.  An array of token type URIs
      [RFC8693] that may be requested.  If omitted, the client may
      request any token type the authorization server supports.

5.7.1.2.  authorization_code

   The client obtains a token using the OAuth 2.0 authorization code
   grant Section 4.1 of [RFC6749] with PKCE.  This type typically has
   status of consent_required.  The client uses the authorization_server
   metadata [RFC8414] to locate endpoints, includes the resource
   parameter [RFC8707], and determines its client identity from
   client_registration (and, for static, client_id).  This type defines
   no additional members.

   For interactive acquisition, the client SHOULD pass the account's
   login_hint, or otherwise rely on the authorization server's account
   selection, to obtain a token for that account.

5.7.1.3.  client_credentials

   The client obtains a token using the OAuth 2.0 client credentials
   grant Section 4.4 of [RFC6749], authenticating as itself.  The
   resulting token carries no user identity.  This type is appropriate
   only when the agent acts as itself and the service does not need the
   user's identity, and the catalog includes it because such a service
   may still be relevant to the user's task.  Because the per-user
   status vocabulary does not apply cleanly, a client_credentials
   connection SHOULD use status available (reflecting the client's own
   access, not the user's).  The values connected and consent_required
   do not apply.  Because this connection has no user relationship, the
   resource-confirmation requirement (Section 5.7.1) is satisfied by the
   client's local policy or configuration rather than by user
   confirmation.  This type defines no additional members.

5.7.1.4.  id_jag

   The client obtains an access token by redeeming an Identity Assertion
   Authorization Grant (ID-JAG)
   [I-D.oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] at the service's
   authorization_server.  The client first obtains an ID-JAG for the
   user from the user's identity provider and then redeems it.

   Type-specific members:

   audience:  OPTIONAL.  A string giving the audience value identifying
      the service for which the ID-JAG is requested.  For a multi-tenant
      service, the tenant is represented as in Section 5.7.1.1: a
      distinct, grouped service object carrying the descriptive tenant,
      with the audience selecting it.

   For silent acquisition (token_exchange, id_jag), the account is
   determined by the identity of the subject token (or assertion) the
   client presents.  Selecting a connected account therefore means using
   the subject token that corresponds to it.  The opaque account.id is a
   correlation handle, not a token request parameter.  The catalog does
   not, by itself, map an account to a particular subject token: for
   silent multi-account acquisition the client MUST determine that
   mapping out of band (for example, from the subjects of the subject
   tokens it already holds).  A catalog that lists multiple connected
   accounts on a silent OAuth connection type is thus actionable only by
   a client that already holds the corresponding subject tokens.

5.7.2.  Pre-Authorized Credential Profile

   The pre_authorized profile describes a credential the client already
   possesses, or can obtain through a deployment-specific secure channel
   (for example, a secrets manager, an enterprise configuration system,
   or prior provisioning), never through the catalog.  The catalog only
   signals that this method applies and, via the connection's present
   member (Section 5.6), how the credential is presented.  It MUST NOT
   include the credential itself or any pointer that would let an
   unauthorized party retrieve it.  This profile typically has status of
   connected.

   Before presenting a pre-provisioned credential to a service's
   endpoint, the client MUST establish the binding between that
   endpoint, the credential, and the intended service from a trusted
   source (explicit configuration, a trust policy, or user
   confirmation), not from the catalog alone.  Any sender-constraint
   requirement for such a connection is likewise conveyed out of band,
   since there is no OAuth protected resource metadata to discover it
   from.

5.7.3.  Proxy-Injected Credential Profile

   The proxy_injected profile describes a connection in which the client
   never obtains or holds the service credential.  A trusted
   intermediary (an egress proxy or gateway) attaches the credential to
   the client's requests to the service on the client's behalf.  This
   narrows the client's exposure: a compromised client does not yield
   the long-lived service credential itself.  It does not eliminate
   exposure.  Where the client authenticates to an explicit proxy uri
   (below), that credential fronts every credential the intermediary
   will inject and is therefore itself sensitive.  The policy by which
   the intermediary decides which credential to attach to which request
   is an out-of-band trust assumption the client depends on (a client
   that can steer its own destination could otherwise induce injection
   toward an unintended target).  It is compatible with the audience-
   binding and no-passthrough rules of Section 9.4, which the
   intermediary (acting as the client to the service) observes.

   Profile-specific members:

   proxy:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON object describing the intermediary.  It MAY
      contain uri (a URI through which the client routes its requests to
      the service).  When uri is absent, the intermediary operates
      transparently on the client's egress and is configured out of
      band.

   When the client routes through an explicit proxy uri, the
   connection's present member (Section 5.6) describes how the client
   authenticates to the _intermediary_ (for example, with its own bearer
   token or a sentinel), not to the service.  The service-facing
   credential is held and presented solely by the intermediary, and the
   catalog MUST NOT convey it.  Because a proxy_injected connection has
   no authorization_server, it cannot be re-anchored using the OAuth
   profile's resource metadata checks.  The client MUST establish trust
   in the intermediary's uri and identity from a trusted source before
   routing requests through it.

5.7.4.  Single Sign-On Profile

   The sso profile describes a launch-style connection: a browser single
   sign-on into a web application, in which the identity provider
   federates a session in a user agent and the client holds no
   credential.  It models the entries of an enterprise single sign-on
   application catalog.  An sso connection object MUST include a type
   member whose value is drawn from the "SSO Service Catalog Connection
   Type" registry (Section 11.8).  This document defines saml, oidc, and
   ws_fed.

   Profile-specific members:

   launch_uri:  REQUIRED.  A URI that a user agent opens to begin single
      sign-on.  For saml, it is the service-provider-initiated or
      identity-provider-initiated SSO start URL.  For oidc, it is the
      relying party's third-party-initiated login initiation URI
      [OPENID-CONNECT], which lets an application launcher start login
      at the relying party.  The application's federation metadata (for
      example, SAML metadata or the OpenID Provider configuration) is
      referenced through a describedby link (Section 5.5) rather than
      restated.

   relay_state:  OPTIONAL.  A value the launcher passes to deep-link
      into a location within the application after sign-on.  For saml,
      it is the SAML RelayState.  For oidc, it is the target_link_uri of
      third-party-initiated login.

   An sso connection is completed by opening launch_uri in a user agent,
   not by the client obtaining a token.  The present member
   (Section 5.6) does not apply.  Because access is browser-mediated, an
   sso connection is launchable on the user's behalf but is not
   programmatically callable by the client.

   For a launch-style connection, access is always browser-mediated, so
   the status vocabulary describes assignment and sign-on readiness
   rather than credential acquisition:

   *  connected: the application is assigned to, or provisioned for, the
      user and is ready to launch.

   *  consent_required: launch will require interactive sign-on or
      consent the user has not yet completed.

   *  available: the application can be launched, but the provider does
      not distinguish a prior relationship.

   *  unavailable: the application is known but cannot currently be
      launched.

   Here available and consent_required differ in whether interactive
   sign-on is expected, not in whether a browser is involved, since
   every launch uses the user's user agent.

   Before launch, the client MUST establish the identity of the
   application and of the launch_uri from a trusted source
   (Section 9.6), since an arbitrary catalog does not prove them.  That
   trusted source MAY be the Catalog Provider itself when the client has
   established trust in that provider, for example the user's enterprise
   identity provider reached through verified discovery or explicit
   configuration.  In that common deployment, trust in the provider and
   its enterprise policy satisfy this requirement, and no second source
   is needed.  The requirement guards against trusting a launch_uri from
   a provider the client has not established trust in.  Federation
   metadata and its format are defined by the relevant single sign-on
   specification.  This document references such metadata by URL and
   does not restate it.

5.7.5.  Portal Profile

   The portal profile describes a launch-only application: a link the
   user opens, where the application handles authentication by its own
   means, such as a bookmarked web application or one behind a password
   manager.  It is the catalog equivalent of a single sign-on bookmark
   tile.  Its only member is launch_uri, a URI the user agent opens.
   Like sso, a portal connection is browser-mediated and launchable on
   the user's behalf, the present member does not apply, the launch-
   style status semantics above apply, and the client MUST establish the
   identity of the launch_uri from a trusted source before launch
   (Section 9.6).

5.7.6.  Public Service Profile

   The none profile describes a service that requires no client
   authentication.  This profile defines no additional members and
   typically has status of available.  Although no credential is
   presented, the client still sends requests, and possibly user data,
   to the service's endpoint.  As with the other non-oauth profiles, the
   client MUST establish the service's identity from a trusted source
   (explicit configuration, a trust policy, or user confirmation), not
   from the catalog alone, before sending any user data.

   A Catalog Provider MUST NOT include secret values (access tokens,
   refresh tokens, client secrets, API keys, or private keys) anywhere
   in the catalog.

5.8.  Examples

5.8.1.  A Minimal Catalog

   The simplest useful catalog is one HTTP service with one OAuth
   connection.  The client retrieves it, re-anchors the
   authorization_server against the resource, obtains a token, and calls
   the API.

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Content-Type: application/service-catalog+json

   {
     "services": [
       {
         "id": "mail",
         "display_name": "Example Mail",
         "endpoint": "https://api.example.com/mail",
         "connections": [
           {
             "profile": "oauth",
             "type": "authorization_code",
             "status": "consent_required",
             "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
             "resource": "https://api.example.com/mail",
             "scopes": ["mail.read"]
           }
         ]
       }
     ]
   }

   The remaining examples show broader applicability: MCP and A2A
   services, multiple accounts, and a pre-provisioned credential.

5.8.2.  A Catalog Response

   The following is a non-normative example response showing five
   services: an HTTP service in the email category offering both token
   exchange and user consent, an MCP server referencing its Server Card,
   a service the user is already connected to via a pre-provisioned API
   key (note the present member), an A2A agent referencing its Agent
   Card, and an SSO web application launched via OpenID Connect (note
   the launch_uri and the absence of a credential).

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Content-Type: application/service-catalog+json
   Cache-Control: private, max-age=60

   {
     "$schema": "https://example.com/schemas/service-catalog.json",
     "display_name": "Example Workspace",
     "updated": "2026-06-16T18:00:00Z",
     "services": [
       {
         "id": "mail",
         "display_name": "Example Mail",
         "name": "example-mail",
         "logo_uri": "https://example.com/icons/mail.png",
         "type": "http",
         "categories": ["email"],
         "endpoint": "https://api.example.com/mail",
         "links": [
           {"rel": "service-doc",
            "href": "https://dev.example.com/mail"},
           {"rel": "service-desc",
            "href": "https://api.example.com/mail/openapi.json"},
           {"rel": "sign-up", "href": "https://example.com/signup"}
         ],
         "connections": [
           {
             "profile": "oauth",
             "type": "token_exchange",
             "status": "available",
             "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
             "resource": "https://api.example.com/mail",
             "scopes": ["mail.read", "mail.send"]
           },
           {
             "profile": "oauth",
             "type": "authorization_code",
             "status": "consent_required",
             "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
             "resource": "https://api.example.com/mail",
             "scopes": ["mail.read", "mail.send"],
             "authorization_details_types": ["mail.message"],
             "client_registration": "dynamic"
           }
         ]
       },
       {
         "id": "tickets",
         "display_name": "Support Tickets (MCP)",
         "type": "mcp",
         "categories": ["ticketing"],
         "endpoint": "https://mcp.example.com/mcp",
         "mcp": {"transport": "streamable-http"},
         "links": [
           {"rel": "mcp-server-card",
            "href": "https://mcp.example.com/server-card.json"}
         ],
         "connections": [
           {
             "profile": "oauth",
             "type": "authorization_code",
             "status": "consent_required",
             "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
             "resource": "https://mcp.example.com/mcp",
             "client_registration": "dynamic"
           }
         ]
       },
       {
         "id": "calendar",
         "display_name": "Calendar API",
         "categories": ["calendar"],
         "endpoint": "https://api.calendar.example",
         "connections": [
           {
             "profile": "pre_authorized",
             "status": "connected",
             "present": {
               "type": "apiKey", "in": "header", "name": "X-API-Key"
             }
           }
         ]
       },
       {
         "id": "scheduler",
         "display_name": "Scheduler Agent",
         "type": "a2a",
         "categories": ["calendar"],
         "endpoint": "https://agent.example/a2a",
         "a2a": {"transport": "JSONRPC"},
         "links": [
           {"rel": "agent-card",
            "href":
              "https://agent.example/.well-known/agent-card.json"}
         ],
         "connections": [
           {
             "profile": "oauth",
             "type": "authorization_code",
             "status": "consent_required",
             "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
             "resource": "https://agent.example/a2a",
             "client_registration": "dynamic"
           }
         ]
       },
       {
         "id": "hr",
         "display_name": "HR Portal",
         "endpoint": "https://hr.example.com",
         "connections": [
           {
             "profile": "sso",
             "type": "oidc",
             "status": "connected",
             "launch_uri": "https://hr.example.com/oidc/login"
           }
         ]
       }
     ]
   }

5.8.3.  Multiple Instances and Accounts

   A logical service the user can reach as more than one instance or
   tenant is returned as multiple service objects sharing a group.  The
   user's multiple accounts at a service are returned as multiple
   connection objects distinguished by account.  The following non-
   normative fragment shows the services array of such a catalog: two
   tenants of one logical service, and a service the user is connected
   to under two accounts (with a third connection to add another).

   "services": [
     {
       "id": "saas-dev",
       "display_name": "SaaS Example (Dev)",
       "group": "saas-example",
       "group_display_name": "SaaS Example",
       "tenant": "dev",
       "endpoint": "https://api.saas.example",
       "connections": [
         {
           "profile": "oauth",
           "type": "token_exchange",
           "status": "available",
           "authorization_server": "https://as.saas.example",
           "resource": "https://api.saas.example",
           "audience": "urn:saas:tenant:dev"
         }
       ]
     },
     {
       "id": "saas-staging",
       "display_name": "SaaS Example (Staging)",
       "group": "saas-example",
       "group_display_name": "SaaS Example",
       "tenant": "staging",
       "endpoint": "https://api.saas.example",
       "connections": [
         {
           "profile": "oauth",
           "type": "token_exchange",
           "status": "available",
           "authorization_server": "https://as.saas.example",
           "resource": "https://api.saas.example",
           "audience": "urn:saas:tenant:staging"
         }
       ]
     },
     {
       "id": "mail",
       "display_name": "Example Mail",
       "categories": ["email"],
       "endpoint": "https://api.example.com/mail",
       "connections": [
         {
           "profile": "oauth",
           "type": "token_exchange",
           "status": "connected",
           "account": {"id": "acct-1", "label": "Work"},
           "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
           "resource": "https://api.example.com/mail"
         },
         {
           "profile": "oauth",
           "type": "token_exchange",
           "status": "connected",
           "account": {"id": "acct-2", "label": "Personal"},
           "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
           "resource": "https://api.example.com/mail"
         },
         {
           "profile": "oauth",
           "type": "authorization_code",
           "status": "consent_required",
           "authorization_server": "https://as.example.com",
           "resource": "https://api.example.com/mail",
           "client_registration": "dynamic"
         }
       ]
     }
   ]

6.  Connecting to a Service

   After retrieving the catalog, a client connects to a service by
   selecting a service object and one of its connection objects, and
   then executing the corresponding connection profile.  For planning,
   the connection's status is the primary signal: whether a credential
   already exists (connected), can be obtained without user interaction
   (available), or requires consent (consent_required).  The acquisition
   profile and any profile-specific type are the mechanism details the
   client uses once a connection is chosen.  The general procedure is:

   1.  Select a service (for example, by category, tags, or by
       presenting display_name and description to the user).  For an mcp
       service, the client MAY first fetch the MCP Server Card
       (Section 5.3.2) to evaluate the server's capabilities.

   2.  Select a connection object.  A client SHOULD prefer a connection
       whose status is connected or available over one whose status is
       consent_required, when more than one is suitable.

   3.  Apply the connection's trust gate before contacting the
       authorization server.  For the oauth profile, apply its trust
       gate (Section 5.7.1): re-anchor by confirming, via the resource's
       Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728], that the connection's
       authorization_server is authoritative for the resource; or, for
       an audience-only token_exchange or id_jag connection that has no
       resource, apply the audience-only alternative instead.  For other
       profiles, apply that profile's trust requirements (Section 5.7).

   4.  For the oauth profile, determine the client identity from
       client_registration.  Do this only after the trust gate in the
       previous step, so that client metadata or a client-id URL is not
       disclosed to an unverified authorization server.

       *  static: use the client_id member.

       *  dynamic: register with the authorization server using
          [RFC7591], subject to the trust policy of Section 9.7.

       *  client_id_metadata_document: present an HTTPS URL the client
          controls as its client_id, per [CIMD].  The authorization
          server dereferences it, with no registration call.

       When client_registration is absent, use the client_id if present,
       and otherwise an identity the client determines is appropriate,
       or none where the flow requires none.

   5.  Obtain the credential according to the connection profile and
       profile-specific type (see Section 5.7), using the values on the
       selected connection object, including the resource [RFC8707] and
       scopes for OAuth connection types.

   6.  Call the service, presenting the credential as described by the
       connection's present member or, when it is absent, by the
       service's referenced security schemes (an OpenAPI [OPENAPI]
       document, an A2A Agent Card, or an MCP Server Card), for example,
       as a bearer token [RFC6750], an API key, or a client certificate.

   For a launch-style connection (sso or portal; see Section 5.7.4),
   steps 4 through 6 do not apply.  After the step 3 trust gate, the
   client, or the user agent it drives, opens the connection's
   launch_uri to begin sign-on, and holds no credential.

   This specification does not define any new credential issuance
   mechanism.  Each connection profile parameterizes an existing
   mechanism or deployment model.

7.  Intent-Based Use and Resource Discovery

   A client typically uses the catalog to plan: it discovers the
   services a user can reach, decides which it needs for the user's
   goal, and requests only the access that goal requires.  The catalog's
   role here is bounded.  It provides the candidate services (filterable
   by category and tags) and, per connection, an upper bound on the
   available access (Section 5.6).  It does not compute the minimal
   access a given task needs: mapping an intent to the least-privilege
   request is the client's job, using the service's descriptor and, for
   Rich Authorization Requests, the type metadata referenced below.  The
   catalog supports planning before commitment in two ways.

   First, a client can plan from descriptors without connecting:

   *  A service object's links reference the service's capability
      descriptor, for example, an OpenAPI [OPENAPI] document via a
      service-desc link, or an MCP Server Card [MCP-SERVER-CARD] via an
      mcp-server-card link.  A client MAY read these to understand a
      service's operations and resources, and plan, without obtaining
      any token.

   *  The connection's scopes and authorization_details_types are only
      an upper bound (Section 5.6).  The authoritative, fine-grained
      requirements come from the service, and their granularity differs
      by service type:

      -  an http service described by OpenAPI exposes operations with
         per-operation security and required scopes;

      -  an mcp service exposes tools enumerated at runtime, where
         scopes are typically server-wide (via the server's Protected
         Resource Metadata [RFC9728]) rather than per-tool;

      -  an a2a service exposes skills described in its Agent Card.

      A client maps its intended operations, tools, or skills to the
      minimal scopes and authorization details it must request.  Two
      consequences follow:

      -  Because an mcp service's scopes are typically server-wide, it
         can usually be scoped only at server granularity.  A task that
         needs less than the whole server's access cannot, in general,
         be expressed for mcp through scopes.

      -  Turning an advertised authorization_details type into a minimal
         request requires that type's schema, which the authorization
         server provides only if it publishes Authorization Details
         Types Metadata [RAR-METADATA].  Absent that, the client knows
         only the type identifier and typically falls back to scopes.

   *  For a multi-step goal spanning operations or services, a client
      MAY use a workflow description such as Arazzo [ARAZZO] to plan the
      sequence before acquiring any token.

   Second, a client can connect with minimal access to enumerate, then
   request what is needed.  When an agent must inspect the user's actual
   resources before planning (for example, to list the user's mailboxes
   or calendars), it SHOULD select a connection and request the least-
   privilege access sufficient to enumerate, such as narrow scopes, or a
   minimal authorization_details request limited to the
   authorization_details_types the connection advertises (Section 5.6),
   and then make a further, intent-scoped request for the access it
   determines it needs.  Whether such narrowing is honored, and whether
   the later request can add access without repeating prior consent,
   depend on the authorization server and are not advertised in the
   catalog.  The client therefore cannot assume least-privilege
   narrowing or silent escalation, and SHOULD be prepared for either a
   single sufficient request or a fresh consent.

   Incremental, intent-scoped requests keep each token least-privilege.
   To support them:

   *  When a connection advertises authorization_details_types and the
      authorization server offers a pushed authorization request
      endpoint [RFC9126], the client SHOULD push the (potentially large)
      authorization_details request rather than place it in a front-
      channel URL.

   *  A client MUST be prepared for runtime escalation signals it cannot
      fully predict from the catalog: a resource server MAY indicate
      that stronger or fresher user authentication is required
      [RFC9470], or that the presented authorization details are
      insufficient [RAR-METADATA].  In each case the client repeats the
      request with the indicated requirements.

   The catalog is an authorization-filtered overlay: it lists what a
   user can reach and how to connect, but it does not republish a
   service's full capability surface.  A client obtains the
   authoritative, and possibly authorization-dependent, capability list
   from the service itself (for example, an MCP server's runtime tool
   list) or from a referenced descriptor, not from the catalog.

8.  Relationship to Other Work

   The Service Catalog occupies a layer that existing mechanisms do not:
   a per-user, authorization-filtered overlay that enumerates a user's
   reachable services and how to connect to each.  It composes with,
   rather than replaces, the following.

   Enterprise identity providers already expose per-user application
   catalogs: the assigned-application APIs behind single sign-on app
   launchers, such as Okta's assigned-applications API [OKTA-APPS] and
   Microsoft Graph's app role assignments [MSGRAPH-APPROLES], which
   drive the MyApps portal and comparable dashboards.  These are the
   closest existing analogue to this document, a per-user,
   authorization-aware list of reachable services.  They are, however,
   provider-specific, oriented to interactive single sign-on, and silent
   on how to connect programmatically.  This document standardizes that
   per-user view across identity providers and enriches it with machine-
   readable connection methods spanning credential acquisition and
   launch-style single sign-on, and with service types beyond web
   applications (HTTP APIs, MCP servers, and A2A agents).  The sso and
   portal profiles (Section 5.7.4, Section 5.7.5) cover the interactive
   launch case those APIs already serve.

   OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange Target Service Discovery
   [TOKEN-EXCHANGE-DISCOVERY] discovers the audiences, resources, and
   scopes a subject token may be exchanged for.  It is specialized to
   token exchange.  The oauth profile's token_exchange connection type
   (Section 5.7.1.1) carries the same information as one connection
   method among several.  The two are independent and this document does
   not depend on it.

   Rich Authorization Requests [RFC9396] and its metadata extension
   [RAR-METADATA] express and describe fine-grained authorization
   details, but their metadata is server-wide.  The catalog advertises,
   per service and per user, which authorization_details types are
   usable (Section 5.6) and defers each type's schema and documentation
   to [RAR-METADATA].

   Grant Negotiation and Authorization Protocol (GNAP) [RFC9635]
   negotiates the access a client declares it wants at a single grant
   endpoint.  Its intent is client-declared, not a server-advertised
   enumeration of what a user can reach.  A catalog entry's id and
   connection values name what a client can subsequently request,
   whether by token exchange, an OAuth grant, or a GNAP access request.

   OpenID Federation [OPENID-FEDERATION] establishes trust among many
   entities through verifiable trust chains and trust marks, and can
   automate client registration.  It is one way to discharge the trust
   decisions this document requires when a client connects to
   authorization servers it did not know in advance (Section 9.8).  The
   catalog enumerates what is reachable, while the federation supplies
   the basis for trusting it.

   User-Managed Access (UMA 2.0) [UMA2] lets a resource owner share
   resources with other parties.  Its resource registration is resource-
   server-to-authorization-server and is not client-facing, and its
   resource list is a synchronization aid rather than a browsable, per-
   user catalog.  The catalog fills that client-facing gap.

   Agent and tool descriptors (A2A Agent Cards [A2A], MCP Server Cards
   [MCP-SERVER-CARD], and machine-readable API descriptions such as
   OpenAPI [OPENAPI]) describe a single service instance, including its
   capabilities and how it authenticates callers.  The catalog
   references these (via links) rather than duplicating them, and adds
   the per-user authorization context they lack.

   Per-ecosystem registries, such as the Model Context Protocol registry
   [MCP-REGISTRY], enumerate the servers or agents that exist within one
   protocol, for public discovery rather than per-user authorization.
   This document is the cross-protocol, per-user layer above them.  For
   an authenticated user it enumerates which services are reachable,
   across HTTP APIs, MCP servers, A2A agents, and single sign-on
   applications, and how to connect to each, referencing each
   ecosystem's own descriptor or registry rather than restating it.
   Even if a per-ecosystem registry gains a per-user facet, that facet
   stays within its protocol.  The contribution here is the identity-
   provider-anchored aggregation across protocols and administrative
   domains: the per-user entry point a client consults first, from which
   it follows references into the per-protocol descriptors.

   APIs.json [APISJSON] provides a public "sitemap for APIs" with no
   per-user authorization context.  A service object reuses its
   discoverability model: display_name, description, endpoint (its
   baseURL), tags, and links (its typed properties).  A Catalog Provider
   MAY additionally serve a static APIs.json document for tooling that
   consumes that format.  Such a document is out of scope for this
   specification.

   Agentic Resource Discovery [ARD] defines a public, cross-organization
   discovery layer for agentic resources: an organization publishes a
   static catalog at a well-known location on its domain, registries
   crawl and index it, and an agent finds capabilities by intent and
   verifies the publisher's cryptographic identity before connecting.
   It operates at a different, complementary layer.  It is public,
   crawlable, and pre-invocation, anchoring trust in a signed publisher
   identity and delegating authentication to each artifact's native
   protocol.  The catalog defined here is per-user, authenticated, and
   (for the reasons in Section 10) deliberately not crawlable.  It
   anchors trust in the user's identity provider and in re-anchoring
   each connection to the resource's metadata (Section 5.7.1).  It
   contributes the layer the former leaves open: which services a
   specific user and client can reach, and how each connection is
   established.  A service object's optional uid (Section 5.2) lets a
   client correlate one service across the two.

   The AI Catalog format [AI-CATALOG] is a public, artifact-agnostic
   catalog of AI artifacts, such as MCP servers, A2A agents, agent
   skills, and plugins.  It is served at a well-known location,
   identifies each entry by media type, and carries an optional signed
   publisher trust manifest.  It is a public inventory, without per-user
   authorization, connection methods, or per-connection status.  This
   document composes with it as it does with Agentic Resource Discovery.
   An AI Catalog enumerates what artifacts exist publicly.  This catalog
   adds the per-user, authorization-filtered view of which of them a
   given user can reach and how to connect.  A Catalog Provider MAY
   additionally serve a public AI Catalog as the unauthenticated
   inventory of the services it fronts, and MAY derive a per-user
   catalog from an AI Catalog by adding authorization filtering and
   connection methods.  It MUST NOT place per-user connection state in a
   public AI Catalog (Section 9.2).  A service object's uid
   (Section 5.2) MAY equal an AI Catalog entry's identifier so a client
   can correlate the two, and this document's media type (Section 11.2)
   MAY be used as an AI Catalog entry type, so that an entry can point
   to a per-user Service Catalog Endpoint.

   Several of the above are evolving specifications: A2A [A2A], MCP
   Server Cards [MCP-SERVER-CARD], and [RAR-METADATA] are referenced
   here as directional rather than stable dependencies.  The catalog's
   core function (per-user enumeration of services and their connection
   methods) does not depend on any of them.  A Catalog Provider and
   client can interoperate using only OAuth 2.0 metadata ([RFC9728],
   [RFC8414]) and human-readable links, and treat references to those
   evolving formats as optional enhancements.

9.  Security Considerations

   The detailed requirements that follow rest on a few invariants.  A
   reader who holds these in mind will find the rest of this section
   straightforward:

   *  The catalog is not authoritative for a service's identity.

   *  The catalog is not authoritative for OAuth endpoints.

   *  A status of connected is not proof of access or trust.

   *  Credentials never come from the catalog.

   *  Each connection profile defines the trust gate a client applies
      before use.

9.1.  Authentication and Transport

   The Service Catalog Endpoint MUST be served over TLS Section 1.6 of
   [RFC6749].  The Catalog Provider MUST authenticate the request and
   produce the catalog only for the authenticated user.  Credentials
   MUST NOT be placed in the request URI.

9.2.  Information Disclosure

   The catalog reveals the complete set of services a user can reach,
   together with the authentication schemes and connection methods for
   each.  This is strictly more information than a per-service
   discovery: a single compromised user or client token yields the
   user's entire reachable map in one call, making the catalog a
   reconnaissance oracle.  To mitigate this risk:

   *  The Catalog Provider MUST require authentication and return only
      services and connection methods the authenticated user and client
      are authorized to use.  This authorization filtering applies to
      every request, whatever its scope.

   *  A scoped request, by capability or search term, is the expected
      shape, and the Catalog Provider SHOULD return only the services
      responsive to it.  A full enumeration of a user's reachable set is
      the highest-value reconnaissance result, so the Catalog Provider
      SHOULD treat unscoped, full-catalog enumeration as a privileged
      operation.  It MAY require a scoping parameter, and MAY restrict
      full enumeration to clients specifically authorized for it
      (Section 4.2).

   *  The Catalog Provider SHOULD apply rate limiting (signaled with
      HTTP 429 and Retry-After; see Section 4.3.3), SHOULD monitor for
      enumeration-style access patterns, and SHOULD log access for
      security monitoring.

   *  Responses are user specific and MUST NOT be cached by shared
      caches.  Cache directives, when present, MUST mark the response as
      private.

9.3.  No Secrets in the Catalog

   A Catalog Provider MUST NOT include secret values (access tokens,
   refresh tokens, client secrets, API keys, or private keys) in the
   catalog.  Connection objects describe how to obtain or present a
   credential, not the credential itself.  Consistent with
   [MCP-SERVER-CARD], a referenced MCP Server Card likewise MUST NOT
   contain secrets.  A client treats the card as untrusted input and
   validates it.

9.4.  Token Audience Binding and Passthrough

   For oauth profile connection methods, the following requirements bind
   tokens to their intended service and mirror the token audience and
   passthrough guidance in [MCP-AUTHORIZATION]:

   *  A client MUST request tokens scoped to the specific service it
      intends to call, including the resource indicator [RFC8707], so
      that issued tokens are bound to their intended service.

   *  A client MUST NOT present a token issued for one service to a
      different service.

   *  A service acting as a client to a further upstream service MUST
      obtain a separate token, rather than passing through the token it
      received.

9.5.  Trust in the Catalog Provider

   A client trusts the Catalog Provider to enumerate services,
   endpoints, and connection methods accurately.  Because the catalog
   aggregates connection information for potentially all of a user's
   services, a compromised or overly broad Catalog Provider is a high-
   value single point: it could direct the client to attacker-controlled
   services or authorization servers for many services at once.  An
   autonomous client typically has no site-specific policy to judge an
   endpoint.  The following therefore apply:

   *  For the oauth profile, the client MUST re-anchor trust to the
      resource being called before obtaining or presenting any
      credential, confirming via the resource's Protected Resource
      Metadata [RFC9728] that the connection's authorization_server is
      authoritative for that resource (Section 5.7.1).

   *  For other profiles, the client MUST apply that profile's binding
      and trust requirements.

   *  A client SHOULD obtain the Catalog Provider's base URL from a
      trusted source (Section 4.1), and SHOULD apply the same scrutiny
      to resources referenced by links (such as a service-desc or mcp-
      server-card).

9.6.  Trust Requirements for Autonomous Clients

   Several connection methods are safe only when the client can
   establish trust from a source other than the catalog.  These
   requirements are stated with each method; this section collects them
   so that an implementer of an autonomous client (one with no human in
   the loop and typically no site-specific policy) can see the floor at
   a glance:

   *  pre_authorized (Section 5.7.2) and none (Section 5.7.6): the
      client establishes the binding between the service's endpoint and
      the intended service from a trusted source before sending any
      credential or user data.

   *  proxy_injected (Section 5.7.3): the client establishes trust in
      the intermediary's uri and identity, and relies on the
      intermediary's credential-selection policy.

   *  Launch-style connections, sso and portal (Section 5.7.4,
      Section 5.7.5): the client establishes the identity of the
      application and of the launch_uri from a trusted source before
      opening it.  That source MAY be a Catalog Provider the client
      trusts, such as the user's enterprise identity provider
      (Section 5.7.4).

   *  Audience-only token_exchange and id_jag (Section 5.7.1): the
      client independently trusts the connection's authorization_server
      before presenting a subject_token or assertion.

   *  Dynamic client registration (Section 9.7): the client gates
      registration on a trust policy.

   *  Any connection whose relationship the client cannot independently
      corroborate (Section 5.7.1): the client independently confirms the
      resource, regardless of status.  Catalog-asserted connected does
      not by itself corroborate a relationship.

   For an oauth connection, the _minimum technical checks_ an autonomous
   client always performs are: (1) the connection carries an explicit
   resource, and (2) it re-anchors successfully, confirming via that
   resource's Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728] that the
   connection's authorization_server is authoritative for it
   (Section 5.7.1).  These checks are necessary but not sufficient: they
   establish that the authorization server is authoritative for the
   resource, not that the resource is the service the user intended,
   which a compromised Catalog Provider can still misrepresent
   (including by asserting a status of connected).  An autonomous client
   therefore MUST additionally have an independently established basis
   for the connection (a prior relationship it can corroborate from its
   own state, a local trust policy, or user confirmation; see
   Section 5.7.1), and MUST NOT rely on catalog-asserted connected
   alone.  Absent such a basis, or for any connection method outside
   these checks, the client MUST NOT proceed without out-of-band trust.

9.7.  Confused Deputy and Client Registration

   When an oauth connection's client_registration is dynamic
   ([RFC7591]), the client registers with an authorization server it may
   not have known in advance, and registration happens before any token
   is obtained.  This is the same gate referenced in the connection
   procedure (Section 6, step 3), and is consistent with the confused-
   deputy guidance in [MCP-AUTHORIZATION].  The following apply:

   *  A client MUST gate dynamic registration on a trust policy, rather
      than registering automatically.  The policy can be an allowlist of
      acceptable issuers, membership in a trust framework (Section 9.8),
      an issuer-matching policy, or explicit user or administrator
      confirmation.

   *  An autonomous client, which typically has no site-specific policy,
      MUST NOT auto-register with a catalog-discovered authorization
      server absent such a policy or confirmation.

   *  Before registering, the client SHOULD re-anchor the connection's
      authorization_server to the resource's Protected Resource Metadata
      (Section 5.7.1), so that it does not disclose client metadata to
      an authorization server it has not verified.

   The Client ID Metadata Document mechanism ([CIMD]) is a lighter-
   weight alternative to dynamic registration: it makes no registration
   write and yields no client secret.  The client still presents its
   client_id URL to a catalog-discovered authorization server, which
   then dereferences it, so the same re-anchoring SHOULD precede its
   use.

9.8.  Trust Frameworks

   Several requirements in this document reduce to one question: may the
   client trust an authorization server, or a resource, that it did not
   know in advance?  They include re-anchoring an oauth connection
   (Section 5.7.1), gating dynamic client registration (Section 9.7),
   and trusting the authorization_server of an audience-only connection
   (Section 5.7.1).

   A deployment MAY discharge that decision through a _trust framework_:
   a shared, verifiable basis for trusting parties a client did not know
   in advance.  This document neither defines nor mandates one.  A trust
   framework may be as simple as a static issuer allowlist or an
   enterprise trust policy, or a standardized framework such as OpenID
   Federation [OPENID-FEDERATION], which provides verifiable trust
   chains and trust marks and can also automate client registration.

   Where the client and the relevant authorization servers participate
   in such a framework, the client uses it to satisfy the trust gates
   above.  For OpenID Federation in particular, a verified trust chain
   satisfies the dynamic-registration gate of Section 9.7, and the
   client MAY register through the framework rather than by plain
   [RFC7591].

   This adds no framework-specific members to the catalog.  A client
   resolves framework membership and trust through the framework's own
   mechanisms, then re-anchors as in Section 5.7.1.  The trust
   framework, where one exists, supplies the basis for trusting the
   servers a connection names.  The catalog's role is unchanged.

9.9.  Authorization Server Mix-Up

   A catalog directs a client to potentially many authorization servers,
   and an agent may run several authorization flows concurrently.  These
   are the conditions under which authorization server mix-up attacks
   arise.  A client using the oauth profile's authorization_code
   connection type SHOULD use the iss authorization response parameter
   [RFC9207] and verify that it identifies the expected authorization
   server, and MUST otherwise follow the mix-up mitigations of current
   OAuth security best practice.  Re-anchoring each connection's
   authorization_server to the resource's Protected Resource Metadata
   (Section 5.7.1) further reduces this risk.

9.10.  Launch-Style Single Sign-On

   A launch-style connection (Section 5.7.4, Section 5.7.5) directs a
   user agent to a catalog-supplied launch_uri, and carries the web
   single sign-on risks of that flow:

   *  The launch_uri, and any relay_state or target_link_uri, are
      catalog-supplied and untrusted.  A client MUST confirm the
      launch_uri against a trusted source before opening it
      (Section 9.6).  It MUST NOT allow a catalog-supplied relay_state
      or target_link_uri to drive an open redirect or a deep link
      outside the intended application.

   *  A launch_uri may invoke identity-provider-initiated sign-on, which
      accepts an unsolicited assertion and lacks the request-to-response
      binding of a service-provider-initiated flow.  A client SHOULD
      prefer service-provider-initiated sign-on where the application
      supports it.

   *  The flow completes in the user's own user agent and establishes a
      session for the user, not for the client.  A client MUST NOT treat
      completion as a credential it holds or can replay.

   Protocol-level mitigations are defined by the relevant single sign-on
   specification ([OPENID-CONNECT] and the SAML specifications).  This
   document does not restate them.

10.  Privacy Considerations

   The catalog is inherently personal: it describes the services a
   specific user can access.  This may reveal organizational
   affiliations, tenant memberships, and the user's relationships to
   third-party services.  To protect privacy:

   *  The catalog contents MUST be obtained through an authenticated
      channel (Section 4.1).  The Service Catalog Endpoint URL is host-
      level and MAY appear in public metadata (Section 4.1.1).  A per-
      user-specific endpoint URL would itself be personal data and MUST
      NOT be published.  In particular, WebFinger [RFC7033] MUST NOT be
      used to convey the catalog endpoint or its contents: WebFinger
      responses are unauthenticated and, by design, broadly accessible
      (including cross-origin), so publishing the set of services a user
      can reach there would disclose personal data to anyone.  WebFinger
      is used only to resolve a user identifier to an issuer.

   *  The Catalog Provider SHOULD return only information the
      authenticated user and client are authorized to know, applying the
      principle of least privilege.

   *  The Catalog Provider SHOULD NOT include identifiers of other users
      or of tenants the user is not associated with.

   *  Account labels (account.label) MAY be personal data (for example,
      an email address).  The Catalog Provider SHOULD return the minimum
      needed for the user to distinguish accounts (a display name or
      masked address) and MAY omit the label entirely, leaving only the
      opaque account.id.

   *  A service object's uid (Section 5.2), being a stable identifier
      intended to correlate a service across providers, is a potential
      correlation handle.  A Catalog Provider SHOULD include it only
      where cross-catalog correlation is intended, and a uid MUST NOT be
      derived from, or encode, personal data.

   *  A service object's logo_uri (Section 5.2) is an external image
      reference.  A client that fetches it (for example, in an
      application launcher) discloses to the image host that the user is
      viewing the service, and the image can act as a tracking beacon.
      A client SHOULD treat it as it would any third-party image, and a
      Catalog Provider SHOULD host logos on an origin it controls.

   *  The Catalog Provider SHOULD log access in accordance with
      applicable privacy regulations and SHOULD minimize retention of
      catalog requests.

   *  A deployment MAY provide mechanisms for users to review and limit
      the services exposed through the catalog.

11.  IANA Considerations

11.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata

   IANA is requested to register the following value in the IANA "OAuth
   Authorization Server Metadata" registry established by [RFC8414].

   Metadata Name: service_catalog_endpoint

   Metadata Description: URL of the per-user Service Catalog Endpoint
   associated with this authorization server.

   Change Controller: IETF

   Specification Document(s): This document.

11.2.  Media Type

   IANA is requested to register the following media type in the "Media
   Types" registry, following the procedure of [RFC6838].

   Type name: application

   Subtype name: service-catalog+json

   Required parameters: N/A

   Optional parameters: N/A

   Encoding considerations: 8bit; the content is a JSON [RFC8259] value
   encoded in UTF-8.

   Security considerations: See Section 9 of this document.

   Interoperability considerations: N/A

   Published specification: This document.

   Applications that use this media type: OAuth 2.0 clients and
   autonomous agents that retrieve a per-user service catalog.

   Fragment identifier considerations: Follows the +json structured
   syntax suffix semantics.

   Change controller: IETF

11.3.  Well-Known URI

   IANA is requested to register the following well-known URI in the
   "Well-Known URIs" registry established by [RFC8615].

   URI Suffix: service-catalog

   Change Controller: IETF

   Specification Document(s): This document.

   Status: permanent

   Related Information: Identifies a catalog metadata document
   (Section 4.1.1), a JSON object whose service_catalog_endpoint member
   names the per-user Service Catalog Endpoint.  The well-known URI does
   not itself return the per-user catalog.

11.4.  Service Catalog Service Type Registry

   IANA is requested to establish the "Service Catalog Service Type"
   registry for values of the type member of a service object
   (Section 5.2).  The registration policy is Specification Required.
   Each registration contains the type value, a brief description, any
   service-type-specific members it defines, and a reference.  Values
   are case-sensitive strings of printable ASCII characters without
   whitespace.  Initial contents:

       +==============+=================+=========+===============+
       | Service Type | Description     | Members | Reference     |
       +==============+=================+=========+===============+
       | http         | HTTP API        | None    | Section 5.3.1 |
       +--------------+-----------------+---------+---------------+
       | mcp          | Model Context   | mcp     | Section 5.3.2 |
       |              | Protocol server |         |               |
       +--------------+-----------------+---------+---------------+
       | a2a          | Agent2Agent     | a2a     | Section 5.3.3 |
       |              | agent           |         |               |
       +--------------+-----------------+---------+---------------+

                                 Table 1

11.5.  Service Catalog Service Category Registry

   IANA is requested to establish the "Service Catalog Service Category"
   registry for values of the categories member of a service object and
   the category query parameter (Section 5.4).  The registration policy
   is Expert Review, a lighter bar than the Specification Required used
   for the protocol-affecting registries, since a category is a
   descriptive capability label rather than something that changes
   client behavior.  The designated expert should confirm that a
   proposed category is broadly applicable, is not a near-duplicate of
   an existing value, and has a clear description, so that the
   vocabulary agents plan against stays coherent.  Each registration
   contains the category value, a brief description, and a reference or
   contact.  Values are case-sensitive strings of printable ASCII
   characters without whitespace.  An implementation-specific or
   experimental category that is not registered MUST use a collision-
   resistant, namespaced form (for example, a reverse-DNS prefix such as
   com.example.crm) so it cannot clash with a registered value.  Initial
   contents:

    +===========+======================================+=============+
    | Category  | Description                          | Reference   |
    +===========+======================================+=============+
    | email     | Electronic mail                      | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | calendar  | Calendaring and scheduling           | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | contacts  | Contact and address book             | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | files     | File storage                         | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | chat      | Messaging and chat                   | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | tasks     | Tasks and to-do                      | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | crm       | Customer relationship management     | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+
    | ticketing | Support ticketing and issue tracking | Section 5.4 |
    +-----------+--------------------------------------+-------------+

                                 Table 2

11.6.  Service Catalog Connection Profile Registry

   IANA is requested to establish the "Service Catalog Connection
   Profile" registry for values of the profile member of a connection
   object (Section 5.6).  The registration policy is Specification
   Required.  Each registration contains the profile value, a brief
   description, the profile-specific members it defines (if any),
   whether it defines a profile-specific type registry, and a reference.
   Values are case-sensitive strings of printable ASCII characters
   without whitespace.  Initial contents:

   +==============+============+============================+========+=========+
   |Profile       |Description |Members                     |Type    |Reference|
   |              |            |                            |Registry|         |
   +==============+============+============================+========+=========+
   |oauth         |OAuth 2.0   |authorization_server,       |Section |Section  |
   |              |token       |token_endpoint, resource,   |11.7    |5.7.1    |
   |              |acquisition |scopes,                     |        |         |
   |              |            |authorization_details_types,|        |         |
   |              |            |client_id,                  |        |         |
   |              |            |client_registration         |        |         |
   +--------------+------------+----------------------------+--------+---------+
   |pre_authorized|Pre-        |None                        |None    |Section  |
   |              |provisioned |                            |        |5.7.2    |
   |              |out-of-band |                            |        |         |
   |              |credential  |                            |        |         |
   +--------------+------------+----------------------------+--------+---------+
   |proxy_injected|Credential  |proxy                       |None    |Section  |
   |              |injected by |                            |        |5.7.3    |
   |              |a trusted   |                            |        |         |
   |              |intermediary|                            |        |         |
   +--------------+------------+----------------------------+--------+---------+
   |sso           |Browser     |launch_uri, relay_state     |Section |Section  |
   |              |single sign-|                            |11.8    |5.7.4    |
   |              |on launch   |                            |        |         |
   +--------------+------------+----------------------------+--------+---------+
   |portal        |Launch-only |launch_uri                  |None    |Section  |
   |              |application |                            |        |5.7.5    |
   |              |link        |                            |        |         |
   +--------------+------------+----------------------------+--------+---------+
   |none          |No          |None                        |None    |Section  |
   |              |credential  |                            |        |5.7.6    |
   |              |required    |                            |        |         |
   |              |(public)    |                            |        |         |
   +--------------+------------+----------------------------+--------+---------+

                                  Table 3

11.7.  OAuth Service Catalog Connection Type Registry

   IANA is requested to establish the "OAuth Service Catalog Connection
   Type" registry for values of the type member of an oauth profile
   connection object (Section 5.7.1).  The registration policy is
   Specification Required.  Each registration contains the connection
   type value, a brief description, the type-specific members it defines
   (if any), and a reference.  Values are case-sensitive strings of
   printable ASCII characters without whitespace.  Initial contents:

   +==================+=============+=======================+=========+
   |Connection Type   |Description  | Members               |Reference|
   +==================+=============+=======================+=========+
   |token_exchange    |OAuth 2.0    | audience,             |Section  |
   |                  |Token        | supported_token_types |5.7.1.1  |
   |                  |Exchange     |                       |         |
   +------------------+-------------+-----------------------+---------+
   |authorization_code|Authorization| None                  |Section  |
   |                  |code grant   |                       |5.7.1.2  |
   |                  |with PKCE    |                       |         |
   +------------------+-------------+-----------------------+---------+
   |client_credentials|Client       | None                  |Section  |
   |                  |credentials  |                       |5.7.1.3  |
   |                  |grant        |                       |         |
   +------------------+-------------+-----------------------+---------+
   |id_jag            |Identity     | audience              |Section  |
   |                  |Assertion    |                       |5.7.1.4  |
   |                  |Authorization|                       |         |
   |                  |Grant        |                       |         |
   +------------------+-------------+-----------------------+---------+

                                 Table 4

11.8.  SSO Service Catalog Connection Type Registry

   IANA is requested to establish the "SSO Service Catalog Connection
   Type" registry for values of the type member of an sso profile
   connection object (Section 5.7.4).  The registration policy is
   Specification Required.  Each registration contains the connection
   type value, a brief description, and a reference.  Values are case-
   sensitive strings of printable ASCII characters without whitespace.
   Initial contents:

    +============+=======================================+===========+
    | Connection | Description                           | Reference |
    | Type       |                                       |           |
    +============+=======================================+===========+
    | saml       | SAML 2.0 web browser single sign-on   | Section   |
    |            |                                       | 5.7.4     |
    +------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+
    | oidc       | OpenID Connect single sign-on,        | Section   |
    |            | including third-party-initiated login | 5.7.4     |
    +------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+
    | ws_fed     | WS-Federation web single sign-on      | Section   |
    |            |                                       | 5.7.4     |
    +------------+---------------------------------------+-----------+

                                 Table 5

11.9.  Link Relation Types

   IANA is requested to register the following relation types in the
   "Link Relation Types" registry established by [RFC8288].

   Relation Name: sign-up

   Description: Refers to a resource where a user can sign up for the
   linked service.

   Reference: This document.

   Relation Name: request-access

   Description: Refers to a resource where a user can request access to
   the linked service that they cannot currently use.

   Reference: This document.

   Relation Name: mcp-server-card

   Description: Refers to the Model Context Protocol Server Card for the
   linked service.

   Reference: This document.

   Relation Name: agent-card

   Description: Refers to the Agent2Agent (A2A) Agent Card for the
   linked service.

   Reference: This document.

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

   [RFC3339]  Klyne, G. and C. Newman, "Date and Time on the Internet:
              Timestamps", RFC 3339, DOI 10.17487/RFC3339, July 2002,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3339>.

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6750]  Jones, M. and D. Hardt, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization
              Framework: Bearer Token Usage", RFC 6750,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6750, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6750>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8288]  Nottingham, M., "Web Linking", RFC 8288,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8288, October 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8615]  Nottingham, M., "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers
              (URIs)", RFC 8615, DOI 10.17487/RFC8615, May 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8707>.

   [RFC9110]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Semantics", STD 97, RFC 9110,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9110, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9110>.

   [RFC9111]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Caching", STD 98, RFC 9111,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9111, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9111>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9396>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9457]  Nottingham, M., Wilde, E., and S. Dalal, "Problem Details
              for HTTP APIs", RFC 9457, DOI 10.17487/RFC9457, July 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9457>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9728>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

12.2.  Informative References

   [RFC7033]  Jones, P., Salgueiro, G., Jones, M., and J. Smarr,
              "WebFinger", RFC 7033, DOI 10.17487/RFC7033, September
              2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7033>.

   [RFC7591]  Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., Machulak, M., and
              P. Hunt, "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol",
              RFC 7591, DOI 10.17487/RFC7591, July 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>.

   [RFC8141]  Saint-Andre, P. and J. Klensin, "Uniform Resource Names
              (URNs)", RFC 8141, DOI 10.17487/RFC8141, April 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8141>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9207]  Meyer zu Selhausen, K. and D. Fett, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Issuer Identification", RFC 9207,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9207, March 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9207>.

   [RFC9470]  Bertocci, V. and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0 Step Up
              Authentication Challenge Protocol", RFC 9470,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9470, September 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9470>.

   [RFC9635]  Richer, J., Ed. and F. Imbault, "Grant Negotiation and
              Authorization Protocol (GNAP)", RFC 9635,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9635, October 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9635>.

   [RAR-METADATA]
              Zehavi, A., "Metadata for OAuth 2.0 Rich Authorization
              Requests", 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
              zehavi-oauth-rar-metadata/>.

   [UMA2]     Maler, E., Machulak, M., and J. Richer, "User-Managed
              Access (UMA) 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0 Authorization", 2018,
              <https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-
              grant-2.0.html>.

   [OPENAPI]  "OpenAPI Specification",
              <https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html>.

   [ARAZZO]   "Arazzo Specification",
              <https://spec.openapis.org/arazzo/latest.html>.

   [A2A]      "Agent2Agent (A2A) Protocol", <https://a2a-protocol.org/>.

   [CIMD]     "OAuth Client ID Metadata Document", 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-client-
              id-metadata-document/>.

   [OPENID-CONNECT]
              "OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 2",
              2023,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>.

   [OPENID-FEDERATION]
              "OpenID Federation 1.0", 2025,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html>.

   [OKTA-APPS]
              "Okta Applications API",
              <https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/apps/>.

   [MSGRAPH-APPROLES]
              "Microsoft Graph: List appRoleAssignments granted to a
              user", <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/user-
              list-approleassignments>.

   [MCP-REGISTRY]
              "Model Context Protocol Registry",
              <https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/registry>.

   [ARD]      "Agentic Resource Discovery", 2026,
              <https://agenticresourcediscovery.org/>.

   [AI-CATALOG]
              "AI Catalog", <https://ai-catalog.io/spec/>.

   [I-D.oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]
              Parecki, A., McGuinness, K., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant", 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant/>.

   [TOKEN-EXCHANGE-DISCOVERY]
              McGuinness, K. and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange
              Target Service Discovery", 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-token-
              xchg-target-svc-disco/>.

   [APISJSON] "APIs.json", <https://apisjson.org/>.

   [MCP-AUTHORIZATION]
              "Model Context Protocol Authorization", 2025,
              <https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-06-
              18/basic/authorization>.

   [MCP-SERVER-CARD]
              "Model Context Protocol Server Card",
              <https://modelcontextprotocol.io/community/server-card/
              charter>.

Document History

   -01

   *  Corrected the connecting procedure: the oauth trust gate covers
      the audience-only alternative for resource-less token_exchange/
      id_jag, and client_registration (an oauth-only member) is scoped
      to oauth connections.  Clarified that the launch-style trusted
      source MAY be a Catalog Provider the client trusts, such as the
      user's enterprise identity provider, so sso/portal do not require
      a second source.

   *  Closed catalog gaps surfaced in review: a warnings member reports
      incomplete or degraded aggregation, so a client does not mistake
      an unreachable source for lack of access; a freshness paragraph
      states the catalog is a polling-with-conditional-requests snapshot
      with no push mechanism; preferred and deprecated service members
      aid selection and lifecycle; and a request-access link relation
      gives a remediation path for services the user cannot currently
      use.

   *  Clarified that the discoverable Service Catalog Endpoint URL is
      host-level and MUST NOT encode per-user information (the catalog
      is scoped by the access token, not the URL), reconciling its
      publication in public metadata with the privacy requirement that
      per-user data stay on an authenticated channel.

   *  Added a Relationship to Other Work entry for the public AI Catalog
      format, composing with it the same way as with Agentic Resource
      Discovery: a uid MAY equal an AI Catalog entry identifier, a
      provider MAY serve or derive a public AI Catalog (without per-user
      connection state), and this document's media type MAY be used as
      an AI Catalog entry type pointing to a per-user Service Catalog
      Endpoint.  No new wire members.

   *  Sharpened the positioning against per-ecosystem registries (for
      example, the Model Context Protocol registry): the catalog is the
      cross-protocol, per-user, identity-provider-anchored layer above
      them, referencing each ecosystem's descriptor or registry rather
      than competing with it, so a per-ecosystem per-user facet would
      stay within its protocol while this remains the cross-protocol
      aggregation.

   *  Added a Relationship to Other Work entry for the incumbent per-
      user application catalogs (Okta's assigned-applications API and
      Microsoft Graph app role assignments), positioning the document as
      standardizing that per-user view across identity providers and
      enriching it with programmatic connection methods and service
      types beyond web applications.

   *  Added a Trust Frameworks security section that lets a deployment
      discharge the document's trust decisions (re-anchoring, the
      dynamic-registration gate, audience-only authorization-server
      trust) through a pluggable trust framework, with OpenID Federation
      as a worked example and a Relationship to Other Work entry.  This
      adds no catalog members or registries; a client resolves framework
      trust through the framework's own mechanisms.

   *  Redefined the /.well-known/service-catalog URI as a cacheable,
      host-level catalog metadata document whose
      service_catalog_endpoint member names the per-user Service Catalog
      Endpoint, rather than serving the per-user catalog at the well-
      known path itself.  This matches the cacheable-metadata convention
      of other well-known URIs and keeps the authenticated, per-user
      catalog at a separate endpoint.  The authorization server metadata
      value remains the primary discovery mechanism.

   *  Titled the document "Per-User Service Connectivity Catalog",
      naming the artifact the document is built around (the catalog,
      matching the registered service-catalog media type, well-known
      URI, and metadata), with "service connectivity discovery" retained
      as the protocol that produces it.  Repositioned around per-user,
      authorization-aware connectivity.

   *  Rewrote the abstract into three short paragraphs reflecting the
      matured scope: broadened consumers beyond agents, credential-based
      and launch-style (single sign-on) connection methods, and the
      enterprise SSO application catalog superset.  Opened the
      introduction client-first with the autonomous agent as the leading
      example.

   *  Trimmed the introduction: removed the "deliberately general"
      bullet list, which sat before the Minimal Core and overlapped it
      and the guiding principle, and folded the distinctive capabilities
      (capability-based discovery, first-class MCP/A2A, intent-scoped
      planning) into a short paragraph after the Minimal Core.

   *  Generalized the base type and status member definitions so they
      cover launch-style connections, not only credential acquisition,
      and added a privacy note for logo_uri as an external image
      reference.

   *  Renamed the service object's base_uri member to endpoint, a type-
      neutral name that reads correctly for http, mcp, and a2a services,
      consistent with the type-neutral core.

   *  Split service identity into a human-readable display_name and an
      optional machine-readable name (a slug, distinct from the opaque
      id), added a logo_uri member, and renamed the human-readable
      catalog and group fields to display_name and group_display_name.
      The OpenAPI apiKey name inside present is unaffected.

   *  Propagated launch-style access through the credential-centric
      text: the connecting procedure now skips the credential steps for
      sso/portal and opens launch_uri, the connections member describes
      connecting rather than obtaining credentials, and the autonomous-
      client trust list includes launch-style connections.  Renamed the
      proxy object's endpoint member to uri to avoid overloading the
      service endpoint name.

   *  Hardened launch-style single sign-on after expert review: added a
      Security Considerations subsection on launch-style risks
      (untrusted launch_uri/relay_state, identity-provider-initiated
      sign-on, completion in the user's user agent), defined the status
      vocabulary for launch-style connections, and finished generalizing
      the overview and connection-object framing to cover launch-style
      alongside credential acquisition.

   *  Added launch-style connection profiles so the catalog is a
      superset of an enterprise single sign-on application catalog.  The
      sso profile (with an "SSO Service Catalog Connection Type"
      registry seeded with saml, oidc, and ws_fed) carries a launch_uri,
      where oidc is first class via third-party-initiated login.  The
      portal profile covers launch-only bookmark applications.
      Generalized the connection-method definition to cover launch-style
      access, in which the identity provider federates a browser session
      and the client holds no credential.

   *  Grounded the Catalog Provider in the existing enterprise single
      sign-on application catalog, with an identity provider as a
      natural provider, and stated the small-core and separately-
      evolvable-profiles principle as a front-door design statement.
      Made the autonomy value proposition precise.  An agent
      autonomously discovers, plans, and reconnects to already-linked
      services, while automated connection to an unfamiliar service
      requires prior trust, local policy, or user confirmation.

   *  Restructured connection methods into a core connection object plus
      connection profiles (oauth, pre_authorized, proxy_injected, none),
      with profile-specific acquisition types for oauth (token_exchange,
      authorization_code, client_credentials, id_jag) in their own
      registry.

   *  Made client_registration an explicit mode enumeration and added
      the client_id_metadata_document (CIMD) mode [CIMD], in which the
      client uses an HTTPS URL it controls as its client_id.

   *  Specified the presentation layer: present is an OpenAPI 3.1+
      Security Scheme Object with casing preserved, apiKey schemes are
      recommended to use in: header, and the catalog references a
      service's descriptor rather than restating its security schemes.

   *  Established the trust model.  A client re-anchors each oauth
      connection to the resource's Protected Resource Metadata before
      using it.  A catalog-asserted relationship (status of connected)
      is a hint, not proof, and does not waive independent resource
      confirmation, which the client meets from its own corroborated
      state, local policy, or user confirmation.  Audience-only
      token_exchange/id_jag connections additionally bind the
      (authorization_server, audience) pair through local policy.  A
      "Trust Requirements for Autonomous Clients" section states the
      minimum technical checks as necessary but not sufficient.

   *  Framed inclusion as two levels: discoverability authorization
      (what the catalog asserts) versus runtime authorization (the
      service and its authorization server's decision at call time).

   *  Added a mandatory-to-implement bearer authentication baseline and
      made the dynamic-registration trust gate a MUST for autonomous
      clients.

   *  Gave pre_authorized, proxy_injected, and none out-of-band service-
      identity and trust requirements, and noted the intermediary-
      credential and injection-selection trust dependencies of
      proxy_injected.

   *  Added an optional uid cross-catalog service identifier with an
      issuer-controlled minting model and privacy guidance.

   *  Specified filtering (whole-object selection, effective status),
      pagination (next-page precedence, limit bounds, best-effort
      snapshot), Accept content negotiation, and the error model (429
      with Retry-After, distinct problem types); and fixed the omit-
      empty rule so services is always present, empty when none.

   *  Made a scoped, capability-first request the expected shape and
      full-catalog enumeration a privileged operation.  A provider
      returns a minimal slice for a stated need and may restrict full
      enumeration, which limits the reconnaissance value of a single
      request.

   *  Restructured the front matter to lead with the core.  Added a
      "Minimal Core" summary, a "Security Model at a Glance" invariant
      list, and the composition frame (glue, not a new center of
      gravity).  Aligned the abstract and the definition with the
      scoped-request model so neither promises a full enumeration, and
      folded the RFC 8414 reachability analogue into the identity-
      provider grounding rather than stating it as a separate framing.
      Broadened the consumer framing beyond agents to include command-
      line tools, SDKs, application launchers, workflow tools, and
      delegated assistants.  Reordered the connecting procedure so the
      trust gate precedes dynamic registration and Client ID Metadata
      Document use.  Reframed connection status as an availability
      signal rather than a trust assertion.  Added a minimal one-service
      OAuth example before the broader one.

   *  Reframed the intent section: the catalog provides candidate
      services and an access ceiling, not the intent-to-minimal-grant
      mapping (the client derives that from the service descriptor and
      Rich Authorization Requests type metadata), and mcp services are
      generally scopable only at server granularity.

   *  Added a Relationship to Other Work entry distinguishing Agentic
      Resource Discovery (public, pre-invocation, publisher-signed) from
      this per-user, authenticated connectivity layer.

   *  Moved DPoP [RFC9449] to normative references (it is cited with a
      conditional MUST), and set the Service Category registry to Expert
      Review while keeping Specification Required for the protocol-
      affecting registries.

   -00

   *  Initial revision.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
